

================================================================================
TITLE: NPC001 (Caravaneer).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC001 (Caravaneer).txt
SIZE: 63563 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 13:04:10
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 6ccfd1858c93ae3f8b071682ad690c85d93533a5a651688d3f7fecdda0247495
================================================================================

What?! Don't tell me your Item Box is full! How's the ole Caravaneer supposed to shower ya with gifts if ya don't leave a little extra space? Har har! 

All right, tenderfoot. Let's go ahead and break you in with Challenge #1! Your task: fetch me either a Well-done Steak or a Rare Steak . I don't care how ya get it! The Guildmarm will give ya a Quest that'll point ya in the right direction. 

Ready for Challenge #2, tenderfoot? Y'are? Good! Bring me a Mega Potion ! And I mean MEGA! I don't care how ya get it, but if you're plannin' on Combining one up, talk to the Guildmarm. She'll send ya on just the right Quest. 

Now, afore you can travel with the Caravan, ya need the Caravaneer's stamp
of approval. You've got to rise to my Challenges! Prove to me you're a real hunter, and
not just some slab of meat with a sword. 

So did ya have a gander in that Item Box? Bet it's crammed with all
kinds of weapons you can try out. Pick the one that feels right to you,
then review the Weapon Controls in your Hunter's Notes. 

You know, you really oughta skedaddle on over to your house and say hello to your Palico. The poor pussycat's been lookin' for you ever since arriving. The Ancestral Steppe is practically a river of tears! I mean, what's a Palico without a hunter to team up with? Whilst you have your touching reunion, I'll see the Guildmarm whips up a few juicy Quests for you to tackle. 

The Guildmarm's workin' on landing some two-star Quests for ya. Why not see to
other business whilst ya wait? Did ya stock up on items? Have you visited the Gathering Hall?...Well, get to it! 

wha-pssh Har! Welcome to the Caravan! We're gonna have some grand adventures, you and me. But first? Banquets! Booze! Hangovers! Har har! Just make sure the Guildmarm stays sober though, or things'll get real ugly. ...Like Uragaan ugly. It's bad. Hoo, now I REALLY need a drink… Maybe a bucket, too. 

All hooked up with some Quests? Well, hot potato. I can't wait to see what fancy-pants
materials ya haul home. Whilst you gallivant, I'll keep lookin' for my other two partners in crime: that's one cook, and one merchant! 

By the by, Hunter, you do know about your Hunter's Notes , right? They're packed with all kinds of handy lore and wisdom, ripe for the readin'! ...You, uh, CAN read, right? Don't worry,
I ain't judgin'. Took me a while, too. Anyhoo, there's plenty of info about Palicoes, too, if ya need it. Remember: knowin' is half the kitty. 

So, did you and the Street Cook have a nice paw-to-paw? Then let's get this show on the road! Right, Kindred Hunter? There's folks in need! Ya gotta admit, those flyers get the
job done! Har har! 

Did ya like your portrait? The Guildmarm drew it all by herself. ...Whaddaya mean, you can tell? Anyhoo, I've gotta find me a cook and a merchant, pronto. What's an adventure without voluminous victuals and scrumptious supplies? ...Wait, strike that. Reverse it. 

Hoowee, you should hear the rave reviews the Street Cook gave you! Wouldn't be surprised if you got more work. Keep checkin' around and lendin' an ear to folks, and ya might find some brand new Quests poppin' up at the Quest Counter. Heck, look at me! I'm off task again! Why ain't I plannin' for our bright and illustrious future? I've got to rustle up a cook and a merchant, and I've got to do it yesterday! 

Righto, it's Expedition time! Ya ready to hit the road? Open your World Map and
touch the icon! If you're not sure your armor's up to snuff, talk to The Man over there.
My advice?  Upgrade ! 

Ready for some warm 'n' fuzzies? Because the Street Cook had a heap more
nice things to say about ya. Even complimented your eyelashes! (At least that's what I think he said...) What a kidder! Har! The Caravan could use a little comic relief. What do ya think? Righto, it's Expedition time! Ya ready to hit the road? This time we're up against a behemoth. Make sure you're prepped good 'n' proper. Check and double-check that gear! Don't worry, I'll watch your back. Any holes in your breeches, I'll be the first to spot 'em! Har har! 

Huh? Oh, this ole thing? Har! She's one of my oldest companions. But as long as we've traveled together, I've yet to unravel any of her secrets. ...And that's why I love her. Har! She's a reason to keep adventurin'. I'll swim any ocean and sprout wings if that's what it takes to truly know her. Why don't you come along, Hunter? You and me, with the birds and fishes! 

I'd better get back to huntin' down my last partner in crime. That's right:
the merchant! I'm thinkin' a fella who's tough but sprightly, with a broad face... Worldly,
and...what's the word...keyed in! Oh! And who's cheerful and laughs at a good joke. Know any takers? 

The Kecha Wacha hovers closer to civilization than most monsters. Normally they feed on insects, but I suppose they've developed a taste for the local cuisine. Can't blame 'em! Problem is, they've been attacking merchant wagons. The Guild is up a dune without a sandskiff, I tell ya! Once ya finish that Urgent Quest, we can head to our next destination and build us a FINE ship. And a big one, at that! I hear the equipment they forge there'll
knock your socks off. Hoo hoo, I can hardly wait! Go get that Urgent Quest done! 

Ya did it, Kindred Hunter! And ya even came back in one piece! That right there is an achievement. Now that you've taken care of that Urgent Quest, the merchants won't have to worry about windin' up as some monster's lunch. The ole Wyverian over there's happiest
of all! Says he wants to join us and open a new establishment: the  Wyporium . How 'bout ya go check in with him? He's part of the gang now! 

Somethin' is very wrong here...Harth is supposed to be a bustlin' little burg... We'd better find whoever's in charge. 

Well, I'll be. The mine's got a Tetsucabra problem... That'd put me in a slump too, I wager!  Kindred Hunter, we've got to resolve this mess. That menace is getting in the way of our plans for a grand ship, too! No wonder the Little Miss is worried. Every villager in Harth has keeled right over!  The Troverians must be dedicated workers if they work until they conk out.  Maybe I need to step up my game… ...Nah! Har! 

Nice work, Hunter! I salute ya! The moment you cleaned up those mines, the villagers sprung right back to life. Now they're hard at work again. So what say ya we wrangle ourselves a ship out of the village Chief? If y'ask me, we deserve as much. Har!  

I ask ya, Kindred Hunter, what's the
point of buildin' a ship if ya don't push
her right to her wooden limits?  

Let's take our new vessel as far across
the sea as she'll carry us -- maybe to that
Wyverian village the Chief mentioned! Oh! That reminds me. The Man was
lookin' for ya. Said he needed your help
with the ship materials.  

No lava flowin' from the volcano?
Guess that means it's been "int-erupted"!
Har! Ya get it? Comedy gold.  

Anyhoo, it sounds like the Elder is on
the case, so let's toss back a few whilst
he finds out what's wrong. Or you could help The Man out if you
want to kill time. He wants ya to hunt
the Gypceros, right?  

I ask ya, Kindred Hunter, what's the
point of buildin' a ship if ya don't push
her right to her wooden limits?  

Let's take our new vessel as far across
the sea as she'll carry us -- maybe to that
Wyverian village the Chief mentioned! I might've known The Man is a
fine shipbuilder! Even after all these years together, he
still has a few more tricks up those
Wyverian sleeves of his. And speakin' of his sleeves, the Little
Miss over there is always tuggin' at 'em,
ain't she? The Man's got a fan! Har! 

 Ya did it, Kindred Hunter!
Now we've got all the materials we need
for the ship.  

Which reminds me. The Street Cook was
pawin' around for you earlier. Why not
go see what's up?  

...Ah, but how it warms the soul to
see an ole friend! We could talk the
months away. So, what did the Street Cook want?
Aha. So the little cuisinier wants to
punch up the ingredient list...  

What's that? Capture a Gendrome?
Har! Now we're talkin'. I'll give you
some tips when you're in the field.  

In the meantime, make sure you wrangle
up a few supplies:   Tranq Bombs ... Oh, and either  Shock Traps  or
  Pitfall Traps . Make sure you've got
everything you need! That Ace Hunter with the Lance is an old
acquaintance of mine. A Guild veteran!
Sounds like he's made a name for himself. You might say he "shot to stardom"!
...Well, more like I shot him there.
Har har har! Big news, Kindred Hunter! The village
Chief has figured out what's cloggin' up
the lava in the volcano. Go find out what the deal is so we can
get Harth back to its usual
high spirits.  

A Nerscylla, is it?
Cave varmint, through and through.  It traps its prey with sticky webbing and hits
them with a whole mess of debilitating
conditions. And that pincer strike! Hoo!  But hunt the monster down and you might
just get the lava flowing back to Harth.
And you know what that means!  WE get to build our ship. Har har!  

What're ya lookin' for? The Ace Hunters?
They hit the road whilst you were
out huntin'. The Lancer said to tell ya to take good
care of the Caravan. Har! Like ya even
need tellin'!  He and that posse of his will've made
short work of that mission of theirs by
the time we see 'em next. 

Feast yer eyes on the Arluq! The finest
vessel ever to kiss the sea. She'll take
us to Cathar sure's the sun comes up.  What say ya we ask the Chief to help us
send her on her way?  Just make sure you're   plenty ready   before
we go. Never can be too sure. Har!  

Of all the luck! Looks like we're gonna
have to butt heads with this dastard
to get where we're goin'.  A little one-two with the Ballista and
the Dragonator oughta show this
monster who's in charge though.  Ya like that plan, Kindred Hunter?
Har! I knew ya would. Just give the Chief
the word once you're set to go.  

Now, I know my share of monsters...
But I've never laid eyes on anything
like that... Do ya reckon that's the customer the
Ace Hunters were studyin' up on? So much for sailin' to Cathar...
Whose bright idea was it to put a village
all the way up a mountain like that? Time for me to put my thinkin' cap on.
...Oh wait, already got it! Har! Why don't ya see what the pussycat at
Sunsnug Isle needs whilst I brainstorm. So much for sailin' to Cathar...
A mountaintop! Of all the silly places to
put a village. Har!  Well, I'll figure it out. Got somethin' to
do in the meantime?  ...You're gonna talk to the Felyne miss
and go help the Wild Palicoes?  Har! I like that! Let's put so many
Palicoes on that isle that it plumb sinks!  

The Ace Hunters handle special
missions for the Guild.  What with their jobs bein' so important,
they don't get to settle down in one place
for long. Still, it's a respectable job. Keep it up,
and you might be the next hunter
to join their ranks. Har har! 

Good to see ya not dead, Kindred Hunter.
I hear ya saved the Wild Palicoes! The Felyne miss over in Sunsnug Isle
was pleased as a plesiosaur. She wanted
to thank you.  If ya haven't heard, the Ace Hunters
finally got clearance from the Guild to
take out the Gore Magala.  And boy, were they rarin' to go!  Let this be an end to all the trouble
that monster has been causin'. Because
causin' trouble is OUR job, right? Har!  

Good to see ya not dead, Kindred Hunter.
I hear ya saved the Wild Palicoes! What's next on your list?
...Oh, save the Meownster Hunters?  That's my Hunter! Go out there and save
the heck outta those furballs!  I'll hold down the fort and work on some
ideas to get us to Cathar.
I'll shoot some ideas at you later! 


If ya haven't heard, the Ace Hunters
finally got clearance from the Guild to
take out the Gore Magala.  And boy, were they rarin' to go!
Can ya blame 'em?  Let this be an end to all the trouble
that monster has been causin'. Because
causin' trouble is OUR job, right? Har!
Oh, and Commander Fancy-Do said to give
you his regards.

Still got all your limbs, Kindred Hunter?
Well, guess what? The Meownster Hunters
made it to Sunsnug Isle!
I saw them make landfall. Har!
Takes a crazy critter to cross the ocean in a
barrel, I tell you what.

I take it you've heard the Cheeko Sands
Chief is lookin' for ya?
Says she's got a favor to ask. This oughta
be interestin'! Har!

An airship? Now that's an idea...
A GRAND idea, in fact!
An airship'll take us up that mountain -- or even to the ends of the world if we
so bid it!
Anyway, how about that Open-air Kitchen?
I, for one, appreciate the extra space to
put my legs up. Har!
And the Street Cook? He couldn't stop
purrin' about how all his ingredients had
"leveled up." Whatever that means!
With that out of the way, you oughta be
able to focus all yer efforts on the
Najarala hunt.

Nice to see you not mangled to bits,
Kindred Hunter! Ya just missed the
pussycats from Cheeko Sands.
They brought us ingredients for the kitchen -- and remodeled whilst they
were at it! How 'bout that?
Once you've taken the grand tour,
remember to go say your thank-yous to
the Cheeko Sands Chief. Meanwhile, I'll be havin' a look at this
letter that just arrived for me.
Whaddaya reckon it's about?

Great jumpin' Jaggi! Did ya hear?!
Two of the Ace Hunters have gone missin'!
And worse yet, that Felyne a'yours has run off to save them -- alone! Kindred Hunter, you've got to track down
the Gore Magala. This calls for an
immediate   Expedition  ! Locate the Gore Magala, and I
guarantee you'll find the two hunters and
the Felyne. Ya got that?

This is it, Kindred Hunter!
You versus the mighty Gore Magala!
Now go out there and show the rest of these folks what I already know...
That you're the one to get it done! The Ace Hunters are already out
scoutin' on your behalf.
It's them who've been relayin' the Gore Magala's current position back
to the Guild. Now it's our turn!

Back in one piece, Kindred Hunter? Good!
I knew ya had it in ya. Har!
Now open up that World Map of yours and point us toward Harth !
We got us an airship to discuss with the Chief. Hoo! I can hardly wait!
Let's go discuss that airship with the the Harth Chief.
The Caravan is about to make history!

Once you hunt that Gravios, the folks of Harth can get
back to mining Coal. I've thunk up a name for this venture:
"Go Hunt Coal so the Arluq Can Be Converted into an Airship, Pronto...
"But Watch Out for Monsters! And Don't
Mess Up Because This Is Dang Important!
Got It, Kindred Hunter?"
...Whaddaya mean, "too long"?

Cathar at long last!
The Man oughta be happy. I mean, surely you've heard? The Man's
granddaddy was born in Cathar. Left the village when he was young to
follow in the footsteps of some bigwig Wyverian artisan, as I recall. And now, after two long generations,
the grandson will be returnin' in his stead.
Like some force has called him there.

Kindred Hunter, ya did it! Now we've got
us our very own airship. Har!
Nothin' can stop us now -- no sea, no sky, no NOTHIN'!
Let's not waste any time. Tell the Chief
we're headin' to Cathar. Time to
squeeze some secrets out of this Article! Hoo!

Ya did it, Kindred Hunter! Cathar at last! I asked around, and it sounds like the
locals bow to some kind of "Elder" -- probably the old-wise-man type.  Whaddaya say we go pick his brain?
He might even be able to shed some light
on the Article's mysteries.

My Article... An "ill omen"? Pah. "Ill omen" is just another fancy way of
sayin' "delicious mystery," and I'm ready
to dig in. Har!

...Huh? Looks like the Guildmarm over
there is tryin' to get your attention.
Wonder what's on her mind.

My Article... An "ill omen"?
Pah. That's the most interesting kind of omen! Now we know for certain this Article has
a riveting story to tell.
And how about that Calamity he mentioned
at Heaven's Mount? I'd bet my hat that this Article is a
remnant of that very event...

Hmm...  ...What's that?
Throw the ill omen out? Pah.  I couldn't care less about signs
and omens. The question isn't why this
Article is bad luck.
What matters is why I had the GOOD luck
to stumble upon it. Everything happens
for a reason.

Welcome back, Kindred Hunter.
How went things with the Congalala? ...What? It was acting strange? Hmm...
Where have we heard that before? Wait! That sounds like the Heaven's Mount
Calamity the Cathar Elder mentioned.  We'd best go tell him what happened.
Crazed monsters factored into the Heaven's Mount Calamity...
And now we've got a Congalala that's
all frenzied. I reckon the two must
be linked. Ya know what? I'm gonna haul it back to
my old roost and see what I can dig up
about this situation.
Whilst I'm gone, stick around and help the
Cathar Elder with whatever he needs.
Didn't he want you to check up on
Heaven's Mount  ?

I'm back! Miss me? Har har! I heard you hunted the frenzied
Tigrex. No surprise there!  And I can think of another man in Cathar
who knew you'd pull it off. Y'ought to
go see him.

The Grand Guru is waitin' for you
in the Shrine. Says he wants
a word with ya.
The Shrine is through that gate
at the back of town. Let's go see what
the fuss is.

You're ready. Dang, if you ain't the
readiest hunter I've ever met! I know it, and soon the whole world's
gonna know it -- you're the one who GETS.
IT. DONE!

So, the Shagaru Magala has crashed
the Sanctuary gates and holed
up inside... Ya know, ain't that where the Elder
said the Article was found after
the Calamity? Hmm... Ya reckon the Article might have
belonged to the Shagaru Magala?  I've got this idea in my head that I
just can't shake. How about you, kindred
hunter? Do ya feel it too?

Ya know, this Shagaru Magala business
has got my mind churnin'. Maybe life is just one big pendulum that
carries us along, then swings back to pick
up the next person. From birth to death, it arcs us through
childhood to parenthood, and we realize
our inheritance was really just our legacy. And I reckon that pendulum governs more
than just our lives.
Water becomes air and rises to the skies.
The skies open so water can return to the
earth. The sun rises, then it sets. We breathe in, we breathe out.
Everything is back...and then forth. But each stroke of the pendulum puts
color on the world's canvas, and that's
a mighty fine thing. Maybe you and I met because the pendulum
carried us past each other at exactly
the right time.
I'd like to think that's true.
...Or maybe I'm thinkin' too much. Har!

So, Kindred Hunter, how did it feel to
relax for a spell? The others must've enjoyed their visits
home, because they'll talk your ear off
about it if you give 'em the chance. Har!
There's just no puttin' it into words...  That moment when the mystery that's been
haunting ya for years suddenly
crystallizes into one...perfect truth.  And your mind suddenly just OPENS, and
you realize your life hasn't been about
searching, but about discovery.
I tell ya, I could die happy, if I wasn't
so hooked on livin'. Har har!

So, where do we go next? What grand
adventures await us? We could do anythin'.
Go anywhere. The one thing we WON'T be doin' is sittin'
on our behinds. Not till we've seen every
last inch of this beauty of a world. Har!

Welcome back, Kindred Hunter!
Still got all yer fingers and toes? Har!
You should see the Guildmarm when you
return from a hunt. She lights up like a
Fulgurbug every time.
"Guess what Quest Doodle did? Did you
hear about Doodle's latest escapades?"
I hardly ever see her that happy.
But I reckon that's your magic. Who knows
how far you'll go? Maybe not even you!
Har har!

Have ya been puttin' any thought before
yer hunts into whether yer armor is the
right fit for the monster you're after? If you've been venturing out with nothin'
but the clothes on your back, you ought
to think about getting yourself some armor. Sharp attire is the sign of a sharp mind,
if y'ask me.
Dress for the occasion and you'll come
home from every hunt in one piece.

Say, have you seen the Guildmarm's
Dah'ren Mohran entry in that notebook
of hers yet? Because she's got a sketch of you facing
off against the beast wearin' nothing
but your skivvies. And those are official documents she plans
to submit to the Guild!
I don't know whether to stop her or to
pat her on the back. Har!

Where should we go? What should we scour
the world for next? Any requests, Kindred
Hunter?

...Huh? You want help narrowin' it down,
do ya? Har har!
I'll go anywhere, just as long as it
ain't boring! How's that for criteria?

What can I help ya with, Kindred Hunter?
...Huh? You want to hear about the
Caravan's beginnings? Me and The Man started it and came up
with the emblem together. At first it was just the two of us --
which made even the simplest tasks an
ordeal, I tell you. Har!
But as our numbers grew over the years --
and sometimes shrank -- we got better
at most things. Throw people together and see what sticks.
That's the secret to solving all of
life's challenges! Ain't nothin' better than a Caravan packed
with fascinatin' characters. When friends are around, the food tastes
better and the drink goes down smoother. And thanks to you, monsters? Pfft!
No problem at all. Har! I reckon I'd be content even if this
was the last team I got to travel with.





Right!
Now we're cookin' with Wyvern Fire!
This calls for a lil' entrance exam .
Just a formality, mind you.
Now, for your first capital-C Challenge,
I need you to...
Ya know what? I'm famished. Let's do this: Fetch me a Well-done Steak .
Heck, even a Rare Steak will do.
To make 'em, you'll need to start with
Raw Meat and then sloooooowly grill it.
I forget how many O's are there in "slow,"
but timing matters! Ya'd better just get
out in the wild and try it.

That there is the Quest Counter .
Eventually you'll be able to stop by there
to undertake a whole slew of meaty Quests. Before you get to the meaty Quests,
though, ya have to finish MY meaty Quest.
As in, a Quest for meat!
The Guildmarm manning -- marming? -- the counter will point ya in the right
direction. She's a peach, she is.

Over that way is the  Smithy.
The Man there can take yer materials and
forge ya new weapons and armor. Forging is a hunter must! The Man's been my
partner for ages. Ya'd never know he was
so dexterous from the look of him. Har!

Use the house over there as a prep room. Don't be shy! If you're going to be one
of us, ya need your own personal space.
The Item Box in there is already stocked
with a range of weapons. Go ahead and
equip the one that suits ya best.
You can Save your progress by sleeping in
the bed there,too.

And last, but certainly not least,
I'll be here if you ever lose sight of your goal.
I'll point ya in the right direction!

Right. Now take these with ya: some funds
to get yourself ready and a bona fide
set of Caravan armor! You're my Kindred Hunter now. All ya got
to do is breeze through a couple tests
and make it official. Good luck, har har!

...Wh-what? ...Wh-wh-what?  Aw, I get it. Ya big joker you! I knew I
liked ya for a reason. I like ya so much,
I'm gonna give ya my entrance exam! Har!
Now, for your first capital-C Challenge,
I want you to...
Ya know what? I'm famished. Let's do this! Go fetch me a Well-done Steak .
Heck, even a Rare Steak will do. To make 'em, you'll need to start with
Raw Meat and then sloooooowly grill it. I forget how many O's are there in "slow,"
but timing matters! Ya'd better just get
out in the wild and try it.

That there is the Quest Counter .
Eventually you'll be able to stop by there
to undertake a whole slew of meaty Quests. Before you get to the meaty Quests,
though, ya have to finish MY meaty Quest.
As in, a Quest for meat!
The Guildmarm manning -- marming? --
the counter will point ya in the right
direction. She's a peach, she is.

Over that way is the Smithy.
The Man there can take yer materials and
forge ya new weapons and armor. Forging is a hunter must! The Man's been my
partner for ages. Ya'd never know he was
so dexterous from the look of him. Har!

Use the house over there as a prep room. Don't be shy! If you're going to be one
of us, ya need your own personal space. The Item Box in there is already stocked
with a range of weapons.
Go ahead and equip the one that suits ya best.
You can Save your progress by sleeping in
the bed  there, too.

And last, but certainly not least, I'll be
here if you ever lose sight of your goal.
I'll point ya in the right direction!

Right. Now take these with ya: some funds
to get yourself ready and a bona fide set of Caravan armor! Trust me, you'll love it. Before ya know
it, we'll be all warm and fuzzy and I'll
be callin' ya Kindred Hunter. Har!

So, have ya got my  Well-done Steak ?
I'll even take a Rare Steak! Hoowee! That meat looks BEASTLY!
nom nom nom
...Hot dang, it IS beastly! Looks like you just passed Challenge #1 with flying gravy!

Time for Challenge #2.
Let's see... Ya know, I banged myself up a bit back
on the ferry, so let's try this: bring me
a Mega Potion any way ya can! You can make a Mega Potion by Combining
a Potion and Honey, and-- Ya know what?
Just get out there and try it! Har!
The Guildmarm will point ya in the right
direction, just like last time.
Be careful, though! I got a keen feelin'
you'll be bumpin' into some carnivores this time around.
Better take these funds and get yourself set up nice and proper.
Can't have my Kindred Hunter gettin' eaten. Har har!

If you're off to find some Raw Meat, talk
to the Guildmarm at the Quest Counter.
She'll send ya on just the right Quest.

So, have ya got my Mega Potion yet?
Right. Let's see if this soothes the
savaged me.
chug chug chug
...Rawr! Hoowee! Does it ever!
Looks like you've passed Challenge #2!
Welcome to the Capital C Caravan, Kindred
Hunter! Let the adventures begin!

...What's that? You want to jump right into more Quests? Har har!
I mighta known. Well, don't forget to take the Felyne
with ya. You know, the  Palico waiting in your house?
Palicoes live and breathe to help you out
in the field, so why not take yours out
for a hunt? He's been mighty lonely.

...Right. I'll tell the Guildmarm to get
that Quest Counter runnin' good and
proper so you can take on some real Quests.  Then y'oughta be good to go-- Ah!
I forgot one last thing. Val Habar's
big ole  Gathering Hall  ! The world's full of hunters, and I figure ya
might want to link up with some of them. If ya
do, the Gathering Hall's the place to go. With  Local Play  , you can hunt with
friends right next to ya... And with  Online Multiplayer  , you can team
up with folks around the world! How's
them apples for ya?  Go talk to the  Guildmaster  if you want
to hear the full spiel. He's the feller
with the twitchy pipe. So ya all set, Kindred Hunter? Good!  I'll stick around here whilst ya hunt
and see if I can find us a cook and a
merchant! Say hello to your Palico back at
your house for me. Har har!  If you're off to find ingredients, talk
to the Guildmarm at the Quest Counter.
She'll send ya on just the right Quest.  Still in one piece? The Caravan Cares, with
a capital C, so tell yer friends, especially
if they're cooks or merchants! Har har.  ...Hm? Why the dour expression? Oh, so ya
want to do tougher Quests than the Guild
is dishin' out, huh? I get it. Well, sometimes ya have to hunt for JOBS,
too, Kindred Hunter! But don't worry --
I'm way ahead of ya by a couple inches. I went ahead and plastered the village
with these   flyers   with your mug all
over 'em. They say:  "Troubles Got Ya Down?
 Our Kindred Hunter Will Save the Day!
 Lickety-Split, This Hunter Never Quits!" Just watch. You'll be mobbed with job
offers faster than you can say "virus-y
marketin'." ...Hmm? "Viral" marketing?
...I guess that works, too.  Anyway, here's how ya take a job.
1. Find someone who's itchin' to acquire your
   services, then   talk   to 'em.  2. Listen to their bellyachin' so their
   Quest will get   registered at the
   Quest Counter  . 3. Head over to the Quest Counter and
	accept the new Quest   at your leisure. Easy, right?
...And holy smokes! I think I smell
desperation around the village already!  Look over there. The  Street Cook  must
have seen our flyer. Go have a heart-to-
heart with him and see what's amiss. Go on. Run! Skedaddle! Git!
There's Quests to rustle up!  Still in one piece? The Caravan Cares, with
a capital C, so tell yer friends, especially
if they're cooks or merchants! Har har.  By the by, I heard ya did the Felyne Cook
over there a solid. He gave me a message
for ya:  "Mi-hao, Hunter, and xie xie!
 (That means thank you.)  "I am SO happy with your work.
 If you want more work, stop
 by and see me soon.  "Also, I told the other villagers
 how reliable you are.
 May your business prosper, miao." Well, that sure sounds heartwarmin'!
Good for you!  If you do jobs for people by completing
their Quests, word will get out and you'll
unlock   more jobs and more Quests . Not only that, but the first time ya
finish a Quest for somebody, you'll get
 Caravan Points   as a special reward! Caravan Points are fantastic, let me
tell ya. You can redeem 'em at a   whole
range of shops  , so save up! Easy, right?
...And holy smokes! Look around! Now the
whole village is clamorin' for yer help!  Don't forget to stop by The Man's Smithy
and have him upgrade yer weapon and armor
as needed. Now go on. Run! Skedaddle! Git!
There's Quests to rustle up!  How ya holdin' up? The Caravan Cares, with
a capital C, so tell yer friends -- ya
look like you've made a few!  ...What's that? Ya want to try yer hand
at s'more toothsome Quests?
I mighta known! Well, as it turns out, the Guild just
cleared you for   Expeditions !
Congratulations.  Is that a smile or a bewildered look?
You do know what Expeditions are,
right? Hmm, I'd better explain. The Guild sometimes gives hunters like
you permission to go on Expeditions
into new areas and do field work.  Naturally, they want ya to report back
what monsters ya bump into or bump off.  Of course, since they're new areas,
you don't get any Supply Items or other
Guild assistance. You're on yer own, so be sure to go in
doubly prepared! ...But, they say a predicament speaks a
thousand words, so why not take a crack
at an Expedition right now? Here's how. First, open the   World Map  by
touching the icon in the lower right of
the Touch Screen. Once the Map is open, you'll see a  blue
Expedition icon  .   Touch  it like
ya mean it!  And that's it. You can head off on yer
Expedition. Easy as pie -- BUT!  Who knows what monsters you'll encounter  
out there? Don't head off unprepared,
and keep yer head screwed on!  And remember to upgrade yer weapon if it's
not up to snuff. In fact, the Man just
finished upgradin' for somebody else... How ya doin', Kindred Hunter? I got two
matters to report.  First up!   The Caravan finally has a
cook! Namely, the   Street Cook ! Who knew that the character just a few
feet away from me with "Cook" in his name
was ACTUALLY a cook? Har har!  Anyway, he was more than happy to tour
the world with us, so make sure ya say
hello. Or "mi-hao," or whatever.  Next up! The Guild is   mighty impressed
with your Expedition work  .
They even wrote a letter of commendation. It says, "In light of your exceptional
field work, the Guild hereby authorizes
you to undertake   Guild Quests  . "Be on the lookout for a  large monster
sighted in the area as you continue
operating in the field." Guild Quests? Really and truly?
Hot dang, the Guild must like you,
because Guild Quests are special.  Of course, it may have helped that the
ole Caravaneer put in a good word for
you when he submitted yer report. Har! Go talk to the Guildmarm if you want a
crack at those Guild Quests. She's
bound to be all fired up about it.  ...Right. You and me should talk about our
 next destination  . Once the Caravan finds its merchant and
the whole posse is assembled, I plan for
us to leave Val Habar. Where to, y'ask? Someplace we can
  make ourselves a ship , of course!
Like, a really big, strong one! Har! You can't go far without a ship, and if
I'm gonna figure out this   Article , I can't
be limited by distance. ...Ah, right. You haven't seen it yet,
have ya? Here, have a look.  This...is the Article. Amazing, isn't it? Ever since it fell into my keeping, I've
been enchanted by its wonder and beauty. I've seen my share of incredible things,
but this'un trumps 'em all. It's like an
itch I can't quite scratch! Ooh!  What I wouldn't give to know the story
behind it! I'd do just about anything.
Even run off in a caravan...  And that's how me and The Man got started.
We've had amazing adventures every which
place, but the Article remains an enigma. Still! We aren't about to throw
in the towel, nosirree. The truth is
OUT THERE, somewhere. And I'll find it.  I don't care if I have to cross the sea
or sprout wings.  Anyway, the next step is to build a ship.
If y'ask me, our best bet is a  village
known for its craftsmanship . I can't wait to be the capital-C Captain
of the Capital C's very own vessel!
Har har! So get out there, do those Expeditions
and find out   what kind of large monster
the Guild was on about ! And go prepared.  Fine to see ya with yer face intact,
Kindred Hunter. And way to expedite that
Expedition! Har!  I have happy news to report.
 That's right! I found a merchant who's
willin' to join the Capital C. Allow me to introduce the   Wycoon  .
...Oh? So ya know him already.  Then ya might also know he came to
Val Habar to investigate the lost art
of Melding while he peddles on the side. Unfortunately, a  Kecha Wacha  recently
sighted near Val Habar has thrown a
wrench into his entrepreneurial works.  Basically, sounds like it's trashin' his
major trade route. The Guild has decided to treat the
Kecha Wacha hunt as an   Urgent Quest  . And guess who's been tapped for huntin'
duties? That's right -- you!  The Wycoon has agreed to join up with us
provided we get rid of the Kecha Wacha
and restore his supply line.  Once that's taken care of, he and the rest
of us can ready up for the next village.
Did I mention we have a next village? Yep! Ever heard of a place called...
 Harth , was it? It's near the mouth of a
big ole volcano. They excel at   weapon and armor production ,
so the village is burstin' with hunters.  And on top of that, the constant lava
supply allows them to handle tall orders.
Like SHIP tall, if you get my meanin'.  Anyhoo, that's our hot new destination,
literally and figuratively. Har har!  ...Right then. Get out there and hunt
that Kecha Wacha, Kindred Hunter!
You're the one to get it done!  Hot dog, Kindred Hunter! You surged right
through that Urgent Quest!  Now the merchants' supply route is back
in business. The folks here in Val Habar
are beside themselves with joy!  Especially the Wycoon here. I mean, just
look at him! Har har!  Now that he's on board with the Caravan,
we can make way to   Harth .
Hope ya like lava!  I can't wait to get there and start
buildin' our new ship.  Are ya ready to go? Hoowee! That's what I like to hear! Right, then. No rush. You just mosey
on back once you've finished yer
preparations. Remember, Harth is full of lava,
so expect the place to be plenty hot
and bothered. Get along, then. I'll wait here and let
my mind run wild with ship designs!
Har har!  Whew! Take a load off, Kindred Hunter!
We finally made it to  Harth . Did ya enjoy the trek? ...Har!
I had a feelin' ya would.  So! Ready to start rustlin' up a ship? Good!  First things first: We need to find the
feller in charge of the place. That's
right, the  Chief . Oh, before I forget. I need to explain how
to   get back to Val Habar  if you need to.  First, open your  World Map .
You'll see an icon for Val Habar. And whaddaya do with icons? I'll tell ya
what I do. I   touch  those dang icons!
Do that and you'll be in Val Habar in no time. Need a change of pace? Miss yer friends
in Val Habar? Hungry for a good
scoldin' from the Market lady?  That's what world travel is for! Har! Oh, and one last thing. The Harth
Departure Gate is up this hill, further in. I think I saw it next to the Open-air Kitchen.  ...Right. That should get ya started.
But...it's funny. I'd heard this village was livelier than a
Kut-ku in heat, but... Well, look around.  I reckon  findin' the Chief  is
top priority. Whew! Looks like we made it back, somehow.  Don't worry. The ship and all the folks
aboard pulled through. Let's take a
moment here and regroup.  Ya have to wonder... What WAS that thing? Now, I know my share of monsters...
But I've never laid eyes on anything
like that... Word on the trail is that the Guild has
been investigatin' some new kind of
monster...  Do ya reckon that's the customer the
Ace Hunters were studyin' up on? Questions for another time, I suppose.
Our concern now is to find a way past that
thing so we can get on with our business. Dangerous though it may be, our only hope
is to   whittle away at its Health   and then
take it down. A little one-two with the Ballista and
the Dragonator oughta put a dent in
Mister Monster's attitude. To use the Ballista, you'll have to pick
up the   Ballista Ammo  on the deck. The Dragonator switch is up near the bow.
That's the  front of the ship , up the
stairs from the deck.  Just hit the switch when the monster is
positioned directly ahead of us.  We'll have to retreat to Harth if
ya faint  three times , so be careful
out there.  Ready, Kindred Hunter? Go talk to the
Chief once you're primed to go. Hoowee... Well, we're not dead. Even YOU made it, hunter.
A pleasant surprise.  Bless my heart, that was a shock!
Are you all right? Do your phalanges hurt?
Would you like a hot meal? I heard what that monster did to you.
Sugar on toast, I nearly fainted. Welcome to my village,  Cheeko Sands  .
There's little to see here besides me and
Felynes, but it's home sweet home.  Please, stay and rest for a while,
you poor darlings. How much do ya remember, Kindred Hunter?
Did ya see this danged fool ram the
monster with his ship? Har har!  If he hadn't done what he did, you and
me would probably have gotten splattered
into so many nautical nuggets.  Forgive me for being contentious, Lord
Scribe, but I could not allow a ship in
distress to go without rescue. I am not certain that describing me as
a "danged fool" is entirely apt, sir.  Like I said: a danged fool! Har har.  Anyhoo, we managed to wash up in
Cheeko Sands with all our bits
intact. And let me tell ya, that says a lot about
The Man's craftsmanship AND your bravery,
Kindred Hunter. Still...  Who'da thunk we'd bump into the Guild's
most dangerous mark? They've thrown all
they've got at that thing...  Even the Ace Hunters! And we still
don't know half a whit about it.
Dangedable luck, is what this is. It has a name, at least.
The  Gore Magala ... It is a true menace. Vicious,
unpredictable... Once its indiscriminate
chaos has been wrought, it vanishes. We must learn its habits, what sustains
it, and then put an end to the creature
as soon as possible. No matter the cost!  Lord Scribe, I must insist you leave this
dangerous matter to me and the Aces.
No one expects you to be a hero. Hero? Shoot, son. We're just tryin' to not
collectively kick the bucket. That dangerous
matter of yours came after US!  Then might I advise you employ a more
capable hunter? Sir.  Hey now! Ix-nay on the low blows.
I've got a keen eye for hunters. I know
somethin' special when I see it.  Regardless, we'll take your sage advice
and try not to stir up any dung while we
strike out for Cathar. What's that, dearie? You mean you're
trying to get to Cathar?
I suppose no one's told you, then.  The village of Cathar was
built   waaaaaay up high on the tallest of
mountaintops . I'm afraid that not even the finest ship
can take you all the way up there. Huh-what?! A village in the sky?
Hoowee! Now that there is a sour pickle. ...But I love pickles! Har har!
So I say we hunker down and start findin'
some way to kiss the sky. Granny, if ya don't mind, we're gonna
shack up in your village for a spell. Really? Goodness me. Then could I ask
your hunter one teensy favor? Very recently, a duh-READ-fully large
monster has wandered into the vicinity of
Cheeko Sands. At  Sunsnug Isle  , you will find a young
Felyne miss who is absolutely determined
to protect the village.  It's just offshore from the beach.  Be a dear and see what the miss
has to say, would you?  Well done, Kindred Hunter! Did the
Meownster Hunters make it out safely?  Ya know, Little Miss Forge approached
me with a wild idea:  "If Cathar is on top of the
highest mountain, then all we have to do
is fly there!" Flyin'! Obvious, ain't it? I can't
believe we didn't think of it
sooner. Har har! ...Don't look at me like I'm gonna
sprout wings. You and I are gonna build
the Capital C an   airship ! I told the others, and once they'd had a
good laugh and blinked a few times, they
said they're behind the idea, bless 'em.  So to make a long story short: once ya've
taken care of Cheeko Sands Chief's troubles,
let's head back to Harth.  Har har. I can picture us now, doin'
loop-de-loops and drawing a big C up
there in the great blue sky...  Bad news, Kindred Hunter!
TERRIBLE news, in fact! It's the Ace Hunters! They  weren't able to take down the
Gore Magala ! They were injured, and only two of 'em
made it back to the Gathering Hall.
As for the other two...  We just don't know. The Guild is in an uproar. This is just
plain awful. We have to save 'em! Put your fast-walkin' boots on, kid,
because you and I are goin' over to
the Gathering Hall!  Commander! You all right, son?
Just hold on!  Lord Scribe... We had the Gore Magala.
We HAD it. I don't understand how it...  Trust me, you can't imagine what we saw.
We can't believe it ourselves. There was this black dust... Powder from
its scales, like a kind of dander... The Gore Magala must use it as an
auxiliary sense, to supplement its
poor eyesight. We shouldn't have gone near
the dust... It was a stupid, STUPID
thing to do... Rrgh...  Where are the other two?
Are they safe? I'd better take it from here, y'all.  As soon as the Guild received word from
the Commander, we ordered the Ace Hunters
to exfiltrate.  But only these two returned.
Danged if I know why. The other two have
dropped right off the Guild network.  We have to help them. Hold yer Popos, Commando. The Guild's
already doin' everything in its pow'r.  You need to stay calm before ya make
matters worse. Just keep that behind where
I can see it. ...That came out wrong. That Gore Magala will pay...  That goes for you, too, Mister
Caravaneer. You put 'em right out of that
chapeau'd head of yers.  I've got this matter under control.
And right now, tendin' to the Aces that
ARE alive comes first.  You do that, Guildmaster.
You make DANG well sure you do that.  Kindred Hunter, I'm gonna run back to
the Caravan and fill the others in on
what's transpired.  ...Wait a second. Wait a DANGED second. Has anyone seen the pussycat?
Where'd your  Main Palico  go?! Dang it, it'll have to wait.
Let's regroup at the Caravan. Maybe he's
already back there. Hold on to somethin solid, Kindred Hunter,
'cause you're not gonna like this.
It's your Main Palico.  He's gone. The stupid fuzzball is nowhere
to be found!  He must have gone to rescue the
Ace Hunters all by his lonesome!
Gah! If I get my hands on that reckless fool,
I'll grab him by the scruff of the
neck and... Ah, it doesn't matter!  Where are the two Ace Hunters?
Where's the Ace Palico? Are they in
deep deuces? IS THE JOKER WILD?! Arrgh!  Darn the Guildmaster, we're doin' this
my way. I'm callin' for an   Expedition  ! We have to locate the Gore Magala,
end of story.  Go, Kindred Hunter. Find the Gore Magala,
and you'll find the others! They're alive. They have to be!
I can feel it in my Caravaneerin' bones!  Thank heavens you're all safe!
...Kindred Hunter, ya did it again.  Many thanks! It shames me we had
to put you through this. Well I'll be. Turns out yer swift actions
saved 'em right in the nick of time.
 whistle   And that's the second miracle ya've pulled
off, too. Y'already survived the
Gore Magala while out at sea. I figured any hunter that ran into the
monster ONCE was a goner, let alone TWICE.
Feh heh!  ... Guildmaster, please honor this one request. Give this hunter the mission we could
not complete. Allow this brave soul to
 exterminate the Gore Magala . No one is more capable.
Please! Hrm... This hunter? ...Rrgh, very well! Listen up, everyone!
The Gore Magala job has been reassigned
to this hunter here! All Guild resources are to be shifted
accordingly! ...And make it snappy!
Feh heh.  You have our assistance as well.
We shall return to the field and learn
what we can about the Gore Magala.  I give you my heartfelt oath that
the four of us will determine where that
menace crawled off to. ...Hoowee! How 'bout THAT!
This is the kind of hunt that makes
or breaks careers! Go get 'im, Kindred Hunter! Show these
folks what I already know... That you're the one to get it done! Let's stop by Caravan HQ first,
though. The others must be tearin' their
hair out by now. You made it back alive! Yeehaw!
That's my Kindred Hunter! Ya see, Guildmaster?
This one's the real deal!  Sakes alive!
I can't believe y'actually did it! Thank you, hunter -- from the bottom of
my arguably dysfunctional heart! I swear
I shall find some way to repay you!  Well, all's well that ends well.
Har har! Now we can get back to our main line
of work: seein' the world! So long, Guildmaster.
Take care, Commander. Not so fast! We have to see our new
hero off! Feh heh!  Lord Scribe, take care of yourself. And you as well, dear Hunter. Har! Now then. We've got an airship
to slap together!   Harth , here
we come! ...Again! Actually, let's drop by the Caravan and
catch our breath first. It's been a
wild time.  Ready to go, Kindred Hunter? Good!  Holy smokes, we did it.
We actually...DID IT! The Caravan is now
the proud owner of a real airship! The Arluq, airworthy! Can ya believe it?
We can go anywhere now: across the sea,
above the clouds...  I tell ya, Kindred Hunter, it's been
wonder after wonder travelin' with ya.
My life feels like it's on wheels again.  We've got much to celebrate.
Your Gravios hunt!
Our new airship!  Let's party down, rest up, and then
ship out to Cathar! Just talk to
the Chief when you're set to go. I hope we're getting close to solving
some of this here Article's mysteries.
Nothin' would make me happier, I tell ya.  The Sanctuary... The Elder said
the Article was found there after the
Calamity... And now, the Shagaru Magala has holed
up in the Sanctuary once again,
just like it did back then... Ya reckon the Article might have belonged
to the Shagaru Magala? The so-called
"Wheel of the Heavens"?  I have a little theory... Maybe the
Sanctuary is its home.  Maybe it's born and raised there, then
leaves the mountain, sheds its skin on
its way to maturity...and returns again.  And maybe that life cycle takes a long
time -- as long as it's been since the
Calamity. I wish I could ask the Shagaru Magala
myself, but that kind of knowledge is
probably beyond human reckonin'.  Just forget I brought any of it up. ...What's that? Ya want to know why the
Shagaru Magala bothers comin' back?
Hmm... Good question. Maybe it misses home.
I know I do, from time to time. ...Aw, heck, listen to me blubber!
Just get out there, Kindred Hunter!
We're behind ya all the way. What's my motto? ...Say it with me!
You're the one to GET IT DONE!  Listen... Thank you.  I'm so glad the Capital C met ya.
We couldn't have found anyone better. I want you to have this.
The Article...
It belongs with you now, friend.  By the by, Hunter, have ya heard of
the town  Dundorma  ? It's a rugged mountain town rich with
Mother Nature's blessings. They've
got everythin' you could ever want.  Unfortunately, that makes it a magnet for
monsters too, 'specially the big ones.  That town's been destroyed more times
than I've had hot Kirin Butter. Still, the folks
there always hold it together. No matter how many times Dundorma
gets attacked, they always manage to
come together and rebuild the place. The thing is, a monster wrecked up Dundorma
not too long ago. Naturally, the town's
workin' hard to put things back together. But get this, Hunter -- the Dragonwatch
are predicting an   impending
elder dragon attack . If an elder dragon gets to Dundorma
in its current state, it'll be stomped
off the map! As we speak, Dundorma's defenses are bein'
strengthened to intercept the beast.
  The Ace Hunters  are leadin' the vanguard.  They took off while we were kickin' our feet
back and knockin' back a few. They sure
are a serious bunch! Har har!   Ahem ... Here's where you come in, Hunter. The Ace
Commander has asked us to   lend
them a hand  . And by "us," I mean "you." Har! He's waitin' for ya in Dundorma. Whaddaya
say, Hunter? Hear him out?  Open up your World Map and touch
the Dundorma icon. Make me proud,
Hunter!  Round up, valiant hunters!
The night is young, and the festival
ya've been waitin' for is ON! Will none of you manage to beat these
challenges? I ask ya! I dare ya!
I DOUBLE dare ya!  Y'all came here to take home the honors.
Which one of ya's got what it takes? Ah, Kindred Hunter. This is yer first
time at the festival, ain't it? Periodically, Val Habar draws in the most
talented hunters from across the land.  Their goal? To conquer a slew of extra
special, treacherous trials whipped up by
the Guild itself.  And honestly, the folks of Val Habar
can't wait to see what tremendous hunters
will come take the bait. They eat it up! The   first Advanced Quest of the festival  
was just posted!
It's  " Advanced: Order of Magnitude  ."  Think you're up to snuff?
Oh ho! Hoowee! You look like you want a
shot at it! Go get 'em, kid!  Ya did it, Kindred Hunter!
The honors are yours!  I was just about to toast to yer success
and yer safe return. The whole village
is talkin' about ya!  The Guild just dropped a doozy of a
Quest. Not one  frenzied Tigrex , but two!  The Quest is  " Advanced: Hell Hunters  ."
Criminy, I don't envy whoever tries it!  Now that I think about it, you took
one of those things out while I was
away, didn't ya?  I remember the Guildmarm goin' on
about it. Let's see ya try yer hand
at two! Har har!  Go for the glory! You're the one to
get it done!  Ya did it, Kindred Hunter!
The honors are yours!  The crowd went wild for ya once again.
Went wild for me, too, for recruitin' ya!
Har har! Anyway, the main event is ON!
That's right: a   Dah'ren Mohran  ! ...Wait, you didn't know? The Dah'ren Mohran is why hunters
gather here in the first place! It's the
Well-done Steak at the end of the tunnel!  The other Advanced Quests are like
the carrot-on-a-stick leadin' up to
the main course. Har!  Anyway, you and the Dah'ren Mohran go way
back, don't ya? You want a shot at it,
don't ya?  The Quest is called   " Advanced: Fleet Action  ."  Hop to it! Go for the glory!
After all... You're the one to get it done!  Har har... This sure brings me back.  We were sendin' a Dah'ren Mohran
packin' the first time you and I met.  You looked up at that Gathering Hall only
half a hunter...  But just look at ya now. I'm downright
proud of ya. But enough with the soppy condescension!
You hear all that applause? The folks of
Val Habar loved ya out there! Here. They got a little gift for ya.
...Go on, take it. It's a medal that marks you as a
 three-star hunter . Whenever you hold this in your hand,
remember the time ya stood against the
Dah'ren Mohran alone. The folks who gave it to ya will
remember it, too.  Kindred Hunter, ya really, REALLY
did it! All the honors, all the glory
are yours!  Hold it right there, ya troublemaker.
I heard what ya did to the poor
Guildmarm.  Ah-ah-ah! Don't play dumb with me.
Wipe that look right off yer face. You completed ALL the Quests she worked
her butt off to get for ya! Didn't ya?!
You devil!  She came to me, laughin' like a danged
maniac, and said, "Please! Somebody
pull the reins in on that Doodle!" Har!  Well, I'm no man to leave a Guildmarm
in distress. I've put together a Quest
that'll  break yer very MIND . How ya like that, Kindred Hunter?!
This challenge is gonna blow yer
kindred face off, guaranteed! Go check the Quest Counter.
I double Dalamadur DARE ya! The Quest is called
  " The Caravaneer's Challenge  ."
...Is yer face melting yet?  You're gonna do it, right?
Right? ...RIGHT?!  'Course y'are! Why?
Because you're the one to get it done!  Hot dog!  Holy smokes!  Sakes alive!  I threw down, and what did you do?
Ya... Ya "picked up"...I guess. Dang!  So much for my challenge! Har har!  You win, big shot. You're the most
incredible hunter I've ever had the
privilege to call "kindred." Take this   Falconer's Crest  ! I'm proud to know ya. Try not to leave me
behind when ya rocket into history, har!  Oops! I nearly forgot. I got ya a little
something to commemorate the occasion. Take it, Kindred Hunter. You really
are like my own kin... Here's hopin' our
adventures continue for years to come.






================================================================================
TITLE: NPC002 (Guildmarm).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC002 (Guildmarm).txt
SIZE: 56877 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:39:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: ea090af708a4c6b500456a4a3a14668d78f108e8a5a26b9e8c2a80048d9de9d0
================================================================================

﻿Okay, here come the Quests. Drop by any time! Sorry, Doodle. I hate to break it to you,
but you don't have enough zenny.  Um, Doodle... Are you trying to pull
my chain? Because you don't meet the
requirements for this Quest.  dummy Looks like you've already accepted
a Quest. Should I cancel that one? You got it, Doodle. One Quest
cancellation coming right up... DONE! Okay! I get it! Hands off.
Yeesh. You can keep the same Quest.  Here's what's on the questing menu. Wow! A Quest that doesn't require a Fee
up front. I love freebies, don't you? That'll be   zenny. Happy hunting! Come back with all your
appendages, please.  I'll take care of the cancellation.
That's what Guildmarms are for! Huh? Getting cold feet? Oh! Hi there, Doodle.
Could you drop by your house?
Your Palico is inside waiting for you.  I'll stick around here and get the
Quest Counter set up for you.  dummy Mysteries! Enigmas! Gore Magalas!
A hunter's life is full of excitement!
...And bowel-loosening danger. Safe journey, Doodle.
I'll stay here and think happy thoughts.  Gravios...needs to get stabbiosed!  Tell him I said, "Smooch!"
No, wait, don't, that sounds dumb...
*Sigh* I hate love. It's quarter past a monster, so you'd
better get moving, Doodle.  Give it everything you've got, Doodle!
For the loot!  Oh, I wish I could go along...  I wonder what sort of monster it is.
Take lots of notes for me! I'll be cheering for you! Listen for my
distinctive laugh upon the wind!  Show the boss what you're made of!
I'll keep him sober long enough to notice. I just KNOW that today is going to be
full of success! At least I think I know. May your Health stay in the green and
your Stamina never peter out. May your Rewards be plentiful and your
carcass never be carted campward!  Tell me all about the nitty-gritties
when you get back! Bring me back a nice souvenir!
...No, seriously, you better.  Seize the day! And, more importantly,
seize those rare Rewards! *Psst* Can I have a cut of the Rewards? Go get 'em, Doodle! Take me with you! Put me in your Pouch! Take me with you! Put me in your Pouch!
...What do you mean, "I WON'T FIT"?!  Ahh, such dedication! This is so exciting!
If I loved monster hunting any more,
I would probably explode. May your critical hits be blazing.  Life is busy, busy, busy! All set? Then make like my notebook and
loose...leaf, I mean, leave!
...Get it? ...No?  You're the one to get it done!  As the boss would probably say --
you're the one to get it done!  Take this lock of my hair to protect you
from-- Hey! Where are you going?!  Good luck! We'll be here praying you
come back in one piece.  Happy hunting! We'll be here debating the
best way to cook Raw Meat.  Bye! Try to be back before dinner.  Okay. Be careful out there. Take care of yourself.
...I mean it! Stop giving me the eyebrow.  See you soon, Doodle! Remember, drink Cool Drinks in moderation!  I'll be waiting for our hero's return!  Calm down; don't freak out.
...Oh! Sorry, I was talking to myself.  You're the one to get it done!  Stay sharp out there, Doodle!
You're our shining ray of hope! Don't worry, the boss filled me in.
I've got just the Quest if you're looking
to complete Challenge #1. You might say there's a lot at steak.
...Get it? It's a joke, because you're
going to cook meat.  Hey, Doodle. You have to admit, the
Dah'ren Mohran was a sight to behold.
My heart's still aflutter!  So, where to? Off to cook some meat?  Ah! Don't say a word, Doodle.
You need a good Quest for the boss's
Challenge #2, am I right?  Well, good news, because I've got the
winning "combination."  ...That was a thinly veiled reference to
what you'll be doing, by the way.  Hey, Doodle. You have to admire the
Dah'ren Mohran's tenacity. It totally
wanted to kill you! Rawr! So, where to? Off to mix Mega Potions?  I work the Quest Counter. My job is to travel the world, monitor
requests from each village, and then
relay them to hunters like you. But world travel is a dangerous
undertaking -- so, as you can see, I've
cast my lot with the Caravan. Oh! Hi, Doodle. I'll have some two-star
Quests ready for you soon. Hang tight a
little longer, okay?  Doodle, did you notice the one-star
"Training" Quests?
...You don't say.  Well, it's a great opportunity to
familiarize yourself with weapons.  I hear they rounded up some A-list hunters
for teachers, so you can expect some
quality instruction.  Have a gander, Doodle. I know they're not
exactly epoch-making Quests, but this is
the best I can do for now. There honestly aren't very many places
with proper Guild facilities.  The Guild hires women like me to visit
each village, write up local needs as
Quests, and relay them to passing hunters. Hey, Doodle. Have you talked to the boss?
I think he wants to bounce an idea
off you. Whatever it is, he needed the Guild's
permission to pull it off. Mysterious!  Did you hear, Doodle? You've been given
clearance for Expeditions.
How exciting is that?  If you want to give it a go, just open
the World Map and touch the
Expedition icon. Noodle! ...I mean Doodle! Did you hear?
A large monster was sighted during an
Expedition! If you want to check it out, just open
the World Map and touch the
Expedition icon. Hi, Doodle! How about a hand?
I'm organizing a party to welcome the
Street Cook into the Caravan. ...Is it rude to ask him to cater for
his own party?  Ooh! Doodle! Did you hear?
The Wycoon has joined up with
the Caravan. I hear he peddles all kinds of
materials, even those from monsters you can't
normally find in these parts. Wow! Well, it's time to ship out for
Harth. Are you ready to go?
Because I am so ready.  I'm a champ at packing, actually.
Watch me fold up this Quest Board in
ten seconds flat.  Did you find the Harth Chief?
Seriously, Doodle, where could he have
got to?  And more importantly, why are all the
villagers collapsed on the ground?  I mean, I get tired sometimes, too, but
you don't see me sleeping on the job...
*Yawn*  Hi, Doodle. Are you planning to hunt the
Tetsucabra? ...You don't say.  It sounds like the hunt will take you to
the Sunken Hollow, so remember to bring
a Pickaxe. I smell a mining opportunity! Can you believe it? The villagers weren't
having a snooze after all!  I was totally ready to pin the whole thing
on Sleep Herbs.  Nice work hunting that Tetsucabra,
Doodle!  Now the villagers are all back to their
version of normal. Happy day! Now, let's go have a word with
Harth's Chief about our ship.  Oh! There you are, Doodle.
The Man wanted to talk to you. Have you
checked in recently? ...You don't say. Anyway, I think it's about materials for
the ship.  Oh! There you are, Doodle. The Street
Cook wanted to talk to you. Have you
checked in recently? ...You don't say. Hi, Doodle. Are you off to capture
Gendrome?  To capture a monster, you'll want to make
sure you bring along  Tranq Bombs ...
And, what else... Shock Traps  or   Pitfall Traps  are
must-haves, too. Doodle, have you heard of a hunting
ground called the Primal Forest?
...You don't say.  I've put together a Quest there if you
want to go check it out. Hey there, Doodle. Have you had a chance
to chat with the Ace Hunters yet?
...You don't say.  The Ace Hunters are elite hunters
who handle the Guild's more
grueling missions.  Guess what, Doodle! It sounds like
Harth's Chief has gotten to the bottom
of the volcano lava mystery.  The boss is about to head over and
get the dirt straight from the
Kelbi's mouth.  The Caravan keeps getting bigger and
bigger. I have to say, Doodle, my
Guildmarm excitement levels are high!  After all, we've never had a group this
full of energy. It's contagious!  Doodle, can I get your opinion on
something?  Is it weird that I just helped build an
enormous ship and my arms don't even
hurt? Is there something wrong with me?  Is some wave of horrible arm pain waiting
for me right around the corner? Are you all right, Doodle? How's your
spleen? My spleen is fine, thank you. What the heck was that monster?
I mean, I've jotted down every monster
from Akantor to Zinogre, but what was that?! I don't think I'm going to be able to
sleep tonight...  Hey, Doodle. Have a nice swim?
Ha ha! That was a joke, because you fell
into the sea. Oh! I meant to tell you: there's a maiden
in Cheeko Sands's Sunsnug Isle
with something really tearing her up.  She's holding a broom to try and sweep
her troubles away... Okay, Doodle, time to save the
Wild Palico! The name of the Quest is... Drum roll
please... "Wild Palico Panic"!
You'll need to hunt a Congalala. My heart just leapt when you jumped in
and protected us from that monster!
We are so lucky to have you, Doodle. You know I never feel scared with you
around. Doodle, Headwhiskress wanted you to
drop by Sunsnug Isle and say hello. Based on how she was swinging her broom
around and meowing her thanks, I'd say
she's grateful you saved the Wild Palico.  Doodle, I hear the Meownster Hunters
made it to Sunsnug Isle. What a brave bunch, going where no
Felynes have gone before! Well, some
Felynes have...but you know what I mean.  Did you hear the Cheeko Sands Chief is
looking for you? Have you talked to
him recently? ...You don't say.  *Sigh* I wonder what color a Najarala
is... What strange cries issue from its
monstrous maw?  Oh! Doodle, have you checked in with
the boss?  Now he's saying he wants to build an
 airship  to fly to Cathar.  Can you believe it? The Caravan
is going airborne. We'll be like birds --
or like a VIRUS!  Wait, no, "birds" was better. Doodle, a little Jaggi told me that you
can leap up and grab the giant icicles at
the Frozen Seaway. Is it TRUE?  I also heard you can jump from the icicles
onto monsters that cling to the ceiling. *Sigh* I wish *I* could cling to monsters
that cling to the ceiling. Not that I'm, uh,
clingy or anything.  Nice work hunting down that Najarala,
Doodle. Did you see the new, spacious kitchen?  We should all go thank the Chief the
first chance we get. The boss's bird just came back with a
letter that totally freaked him out.  Does that mean we should freak out, too?
Because I'm kind of sensing it does. Oh my glosh!
...I mean moe guy gosh!
......I mean OH MY GOSH! Two Ace Hunters are missing in
action along with the Ace Palico?  We need to organize an  Expedition   to help
them ASAP! Okay, deep breaths... *huff*  Do you think the Ace Hunters and
their Palicoes are okay? Being missing in
action totally bites the Baggi!  But at least you're on the job!
...You ARE on the job, right? Oh, crud! Did I even remember to GIVE you
the job? Sorry, I'm panicking!
HERE ARE YOUR QUESTS.  Doodle, I just want to let you know that
I'm coming with you! I'll be right there,
scribbling down notes! ...Well, not literally, of course, but
I'll be there in spirit helping you out. Trust me, Doodle, you're not the only
one with a bone to pick with that
Gore Magala. Nosirree!  The Arluq must be pretty miffed, too.
Can't you hear it?  "How dare you try to tip me over!
I'll give you HULL for this!" ...Sorry, I needed to test that joke out. Remember how I told you that you'd one
day earn the Guild's respect? That I would
help you reach that lofty goal? Well, I was mostly making small talk,
but you ACTUALLY DID IT. They're trusting
us with big-league Quests now! *sigh* Well, scribble me pink, Doodle! Thanks to
you, my notebook is chock full of
monstrous tidbits.  Wahoo! I feel like I'm a thousand feet
off the ground, and we haven't even built
the airship yet! Doodle, how are talks about the airship
going with the Harth Chief? I never ever thought I would get to fly.
I can't stop talking about it!
Airship airship airship!  Look how far we've come, Doodle. We're
gonna fly to Cathar in an airship;
we're gonna be SOARING. Just like your rep. I'm so excited I don't even have time to
breathe I can barely contain myself can
you BELIEVE THIS?! Ahh!  The boss is thrilled, the others are
thrilled, and ME? Whew. Have you got a
Cool Drink on you?  Actually, you'd better hang on to that,
because -- say it with me now --
Gravios...needs to get stabbiosed! It's done! The airship is FINALLY done!
Time to set sail for Cathar, Doodle!  I bet the view from the sky is out of
this world. Rathian, eat your heart out,
'cause you got nothin' on the 'Marm! Doodle, I just helped build an entire
AIRSHIP and my arms still don't hurt...
Seriously, am I normal? What if my arms are dead? What if they
fall off? I'll never scribble again! Busy busy busy bzz bzz bzz!
Oh! Doodle! I am so wired today.  I think the view from the airship put
a little extra vim in my vigors, if you
know what I mean. Wahoo! I can't wait to see what monsters
are hiding in all those grand mountains!
I'll have new Quests for you soon.  Doodle! You're alive! That's a surprise --
but the good kind! What was that Congalala made
out of, anyway?  We need to gather more information...
Think the Cathar Elder could offer
any insight? Hi, Doodle. I guess you noticed the boss
took off in the Guild airship. He had this huge grin on his face and
he said, "Be back soon!"  I guess that means he's going to
bring me back a nice souvenir, right?  Don't worry about the boss. He'll be back
before you can say "investigating."
Which is presumably what he's doing.  He tends to vanish and reappear
like this. Just roll with it. While the boss is away, I'll keep pitching
you Quests and sending you on hunts in
Heaven's Mount. So how was Heaven's Mount, Doodle?  ...You don't say. I guess the monsters
were acting pretty normal, then. Maybe you should go report to the
Cathar Elder and take a load off
his mind.  Good news, Doodle! The Doodle Fan Club
has never had a higher membership! Every one of us is rooting for you while
you take on that nasty Tigrex. And by "every one of us," I mean one
of us, because I am the only member of
the Doodle Fan Club.  I remember when you were just a wee Doodle
and no one would ever trust you with
hunting a Tigrex. Look how much you've grown! *sniff*
I feel like a mother Qurupeco that just
stopped mouth-to-mouth feeding its baby.  Cheap tricks will get you nowhere against
the Tigrex, Doodle. You'll need to think back on all of your
hunts so far and combine the hunting
savvy you've gained into a solid strategy.  Doodle! This is awful!  The boss is back and frenzied monsters
are at Heaven's Mount and the Guild
messenger is in Cathar and UGH!  This is so stressful! Doodle, the Grand Guru is waiting
for you in Cathar's Shrine. Let's just cross our fingers and hope he's
not some crotchety old man who spouts
lots of proverbs. I hate clichés!  Today's a pretty ordinary day,
huh, Doodle? I'll wait here, Doodle. Me and the others
will be cheering you on, like always. And I just know you're going to come
out on top, like always. Safe hunting, Doodle! Come right back if
you get hurt. There's no shame in playing
it safe. Did you enjoy taking a little time off,
Doodle? ...You don't say. I spent my vacay alphabetizing my books.
I realize now that may have been
a mistake...  What a strange elder dragon that
Shagaru Magala was. And what an indelible
mark it has left upon my heart!  The rest of the world may forget about
you, Shagaru Magala, but my candle
will keep burning.  Doodle, you will NEVER believe this.  When I paid a long overdue visit to the
Guild and showed the Guildmaster my
notebook, he said...  "You sure scribble a lot of stuff
in there." HE COMPLIMENTED ME. Tee hee! So, Doodle. Is today going to be a romp
with the mushrooms and Kelbi,
or are you taking on a real monster?  Are the Hunter's Notes proving useful?
...You don't say.  Well, you know, Doodle, there's a lot of
useful info in there, so if you ever get
stuck, pop those Hunter's Notes open! When you first start hunting, Doodle,
be sure to fill your Item Pouch up
every trip.  The materials will almost certainly come
in handy down the road. At least, that's
what the boss always says.  Doodle, you've heard of the Great Jaggi,
haven't you? It's like the head honcho of
the Jaggis.  They say you're a real hunter once you
can take one down with your pinky finger,
but what do you think? ...You don't say. Oh, Doodle. I'm glad you're here.
The Man left a message for you. "If your attacks are being repelled or
hunting your mark is taking too long,
it is time to upgrade your weapon."  ...Well, he's got a point. If you want to
move up, you've got to upgrade. Oh, Doodle. I'm glad you're here.
The Man left a message for you. "If you feel you are taking a lot of
damage, it is time to upgrade your armor.
All you need is an Armor Sphere."  ...Sound advice, if you ask me. Upgrade,
and you'll have it up-made!  I'd like to say the boss is chipping in
while you're off hunting, but nine times
out of ten he's nursing a drink... I guess that takes endurance, too.
...Sort of?  There honestly aren't very many places
with proper Guild facilities.  The Guild hires women like me to visit
each village, write up local needs as
Quests, and relay them to passing hunters. Hello, you well-adapted hunter, you.
You look ready to sling around a Shock
Trap or two. But you have to be careful!  Using Shock Traps on the same monster more
than once causes the effect to diminish.
Hunters aren't the only ones who can adapt. Have you ever seen that icon with the
question mark and "DANGER" on the Quest
form? ...You don't say. Well, unexpected monsters might just turn
up on those Quests. But now you know
to be prepared, right? The bird with the boss is a carrier bird.
Have you ever noticed the boss attaching
letters to it? It's a smart bird! It even helps him
locate his destinations and scouts for
monsters up ahead.  I'd like to say the boss is chipping in
while you're off hunting, but nine times
out of ten he's nursing a drink... He probably needs it, considering the
Harth Chief is usually across the
table bragging about his daughter...  Whatever the boss has stashed in his hat
must be very dear to him.  You can see the Nargacuga-like sparkle in
his eyes whenever he takes it out to
look at it.  Doodle, I don't suppose you're heading
for the Frozen Seaway? Did you remember
to pack Hot Drinks?  Once the cold sets in and you start to
shiver, your Stamina will drain. Don't
forget to stop and take a swig. Have you ever been walking through the
Primal Forest, minding your own
business, and gotten Poisoned? I have. The toxins in some parts of the
Primal Forest seep right into the body.
You have to watch where you're going. Just don't squint so hard you step on
your Palico's paw. The Ace Palico
never let me live that down...  I'd like to say the boss is chipping in
while you're off hunting, but nine times
out of ten he's nursing a drink... Last time, he and the villagers of
Cheeko Sands went all out and built a
campfire to drink around!  Doodle, did you notice the sword embedded
in the rock at Sunsnug Isle?  A long time ago, I'm told, it belonged to
the Cheeko Sands Chief's husband. Doodle, have you gone hunting at Heaven's
Mount yet?  Kind of feels like you're stepping on
divine eggshells out there, right? Like
some ancient god wants it kept that way.  Heading to the Volcanic Hollow, Doodle?
Don't forget to bring Cool Drinks.  The hot lava will whittle away your
Health in no time flat. Don't forget to
stop for a swig!  I bet you and your hunting pals are on
top of your game out there, huh?
...You don't say. Well, some monsters are equally good at
teamwork. Like a certain insect who has
her hubby wrapped around her finger...  Some strange requests have been flooding
the Guild lately.  And no wonder! Monsters with the Frenzy
have been attacking everything that moves
and quite a few things that don't...  Hi, Doodle. Want some candy?  The Little Miss and I got a pocketful each
when we went to visit the Cathar Market. What do you make of the Ancestral Steppe?
A wondrous place, isn't it? I love it.  I just stare at the crumbling ruins and
picture the windswept landscape that must
have been there once. Whenever I see the flocks of birds
crossing the Primal Forest's skies,
I start to tear up. *sniff*  ...Yes, I know. It's probably gas from
the Conga. The danged stuff
gets in your eyes, doesn't it? Have you been to the Frozen Seaway yet,
Doodle? It's a beautiful but terrifying
land of ice.  The Scholars' reports say it used to be
an ocean that instantly froze solid due
to some kind of freak weather event.  The Frozen Seaway is so cold it freezes
your will to live. You can get Iceblight
just by walking around some parts of it. But as I recall, the Street Cook has a
recipe that will make your toes just a
little more iceproof. Have you been to Heaven's Mount yet,
Doodle?  It really knocks the wind out of you --
like time there has stopped and you can't
even breathe in case you mess it up.  Heading to the Volcanic Hollow, Doodle?
Don't forget to bring Cool Drinks.  The hot lava will whittle away your
Health in no time flat. Don't forget to
stop for a swig!  I'm told the Mistentoe growing at
Heaven's Mount is a time-tested remedy
for back pain. I'm not saying that because I sit on my
butt all the time and had to try it.
...Don't give me that look, Doodle.  Good to see you, Doodle.
...What's that? You keep dropping the
eggs you're trying to carry? Hmm...  Talk to the cook. I think he might be
able to whip something up that helps you
avoid scrambling your eggs, so to speak. Have you ever wondered where your
Quest Fees go?  Here's a hint: What's on wheels and
carries you to camp? Sometimes it doesn't
get any more out there than the truth!  Doodle, have you ever had a Zamite
give you the ole chomp-chomp?
...You don't say.  I only ask because I'd like to draw a
picture of the bite marks. In the interest
of science, of course. Have you ever seen that icon with the
question mark and "DANGER" on the Quest
form? ...You don't say. Well, unexpected monsters might just turn
up on those Quests. But now you know
to be prepared, right? Have you ever seen that question mark
with an icon on its head?
...Wait, sorry. I meant to say, "Have you ever seen that
icon with the question mark on the
Quest form?"  And I already forget what I was going to
say after that, so you can just walk
away slowly now.  When you accept a Quest, do you ever
imagine that different-colored tickets
appear floating above your head? I do.  I pretend the color tells you what kind of
Quest you're on, too: Red is a hunt, green
is gathering, and so on.  Bait makes fishing a lot easier. With bait,
you're more likely to catch what you're
after. I wish I could use bait in my love life. Anyway, I love fishing. I could watch The
Man cast all day long.  ...What do you mean, I'll never catch
anything that way? Oh my gosh, what
if you're right?! Hey, Doodle! I was just talking with
the Ace Palico.  He said that, just between us, YOU'RE
his real master. Isn't that sweet?  The Man is even stronger than he looks.
Did you know that? ...You don't say.  He always helps carry my books and desk
and chair and parasol when we travel.
He even folds up my Quest Board.  Sometimes he even carries me. I carry
a cup of tea and a whip. ...Kidding!
...No, really, I'm kidding.  Doodle, I wish I could unsee what I
just saw. That leer that crosses the Wycoon's
face when you ask him to multiply items.
It's indecent! What questionable things does he do to
score you more items, anyway?  Yesterday, the Wycoon smashed
two eggs together and said, "Look! I've
discovered Melding!" What a character.  Then the boss told the cook to break out
the liquor to celebrate, and things went
downhill from there...  The Wycoon and Cathar's
Maximeld XIV are cut from the same
cloth. When they're not talking about Melding,
they're talking business. I heard the
words "gouging" and "corner the market"...  Doodle, I wish I could unsee what I
just saw. Birds of every color just delivered a
parcel to the Wycoon, and I
THINK they broke into a musical number. Doodle, there's something troubling me. That little boy in Cathar is ALWAYS
staring at me while I scribble in my
notebook. I can't concentrate. I mean, what if he's some spy trying to
steal all of my important discoveries?
I need to keep my guard up.  The boss still pours a drink every time
you go out hunting. Last time, he and The Man were whispering
about something. I don't know what it was,
but they were laughing nonstop.  I'd like to say the boss is chipping in
while you're off hunting, but nine times
out of ten he's nursing a drink... Last time, he gathered everyone in the
village to go on about how awesome you
are, how lucky it was to have met you...  Yes, he actually used the words
"awesome" and "lucky."
...Did I mention he'd been drinking? Doodle, I wish I could unsee what I
just saw! The Street Cook dropped a Cudgel Onion
on the ground, wiped it on his fur,
and then COOKED WITH IT ANYWAY.  Oh, yeah. Totally. Mysterious, black
wings. All-devouring evil. Omiwrog,
it's so great. ...Huh? Oh! Sorry, Doodle. I thought you were
the Ace Cadet. I kind of have to
go into auto-reply mode around him...  Oh, yeah. Totally. Golden rainstorms.
The terror of the land. It's soooo
gargwawsome. ...Huh? Oh! Sorry, Doodle. I thought you were
the Ace Cadet. I kind of have to
go into auto-reply mode around him...  Oh, yeah. Totally. Monsters rule. I love
monsters. Just thinking about life
without them giggisux. ...Huh?  Oh! Sorry, Doodle. I thought you were
the Ace Cadet. I kind of have to
go into auto-reply mode around him...  Hi, Doodle! G'bye, Doodle!
Yup, that's right. The Quest Counter
is closed for the time being. I'll open up again once you're done
hunting with your friends. ...Hey, it's
not like I get any other "me" time! Hi there. Can I help you?
...What's that? You're a hunter and you
want to join the Caravan? Hang on, now... Did the boss mention a
new hunter? I guess I could go check with
him, but that would be awkward, so...  *Ahem* Yes. I have been expecting you.
Welcome to the   Quest Counter ! I am sure we'll get to know each other
very well. So let's get down to business,
Doodle. ...Can I call you "Doodle"?  At the moment, I'm afraid I can only offer
you  Caravan Challenges  . If you make the grade, though, I can start
shoveling some real Quests your way.
Fun times! Now... Let's get right down to those Challenges.
Take a look at the 1-star Quests first. You should see one called " Steak Your
Ground ."  On this Quest, you can obtain the   Well-
done Steak   or   Rare Steak   required for
the boss's Challenge. Once you accept the Quest, leave through
the  Quest Gate   over there.  Happy grilling! Nom nom nom.  Can I help you? Oh, hello again, Doodle.
Ready for your second Challenge? Once again, you'll need to take a look at
the 1-star Quests.  You should see one called " A Winning
Combination ."  On this Quest, you can obtain the three
ingredients needed to make a Mega Potion:
an  Herb  , a   Blue Mushroom , and   Honey . Keep your weapon ready, though.
The forecast is showing sunny with a
possibility of carnivores. If you get hurt, don't wait. Use an Herb
to recover before things get worse.  Not that you'll get hurt...
Will you, Doodle? Welcome to the Caravan, Doodle!
You passed! Rah-dee-dah-dah!  So, were the Challenges challenging?
...You don't say.  Well, it looks like we'll be working
together regularly. I went ahead and
officially opened the Quest Counter.  Now you can attempt   2-star Quests  --
the real deal! I can see the excitement
all over your sweaty face.  Very well, Doodle. I know it's not much,
but have a look at the list. Of course, there has to be at least one
"fetch-the-Unique-Mushrooms" Quest. We don't
mess with tradition here at the Guild. There's also a hunting Quest for Jaggia,
which are like larger Jaggi. Last, but definitely not least, is
Kelbi Horn delivery. You'll
have to knock the suckers out to get 'em.  So, uh, yeah... These Quests look, uh,
really challenging, Doodle. Be careful not
to stub your toe out there. Hey, Doodle. Get a load of this:
That Street Cook -- the one that wears a
pan like a hat -- filed a Quest with me.  He specifically requested the "kind
hunter with the eyebrows." I'm just going
to assume that means you. Aaanyway, the Quest is called
  " Chip Off the Old Blockade ," if you want
to look into it. So, Doodle, while I've got you here, can I
give you a piece of marmy advice? ...No,
not "smarmy." Marmy! Ugh, anyway... If you don't take the initiative, you'll
be hunting down mushrooms and Kelbi
till the end of your days. Why not step up, fulfill some requests and
improve your   Guild Rating  ? A higher Guild Rating increases your odds
of getting assigned important Quests. Brute strength, beefy equipment, and a
buttload of monster kills don't make you
a master hunter.  Only once you have learned to read nature,
become one with it, and ultimately control
it, will you be considered among the best.  I would very much like to help you reach
that lofty goal, Doodle. What do you say?  ...Aha! I knew it. I can see the
determination in your chin. Wonderful! Now go out there and take down those
 Konchu  ! Show 'em what you've got! Doodle, the moment is upon us!
We just got our first  Urgent Quest  !
Your job: to hunt a   Kecha Wacha . Way to go! Clearly the Doodle Fan Club's
diligent evangelism has paid off.  So, uh... What were we talking about?
Oh, right, the Urgent Quest.  I guess I'd better run you through how
those work.  After you work hard at the hunt and plow
through various Quests...  The Guild will recognize those efforts
and give you the very special opportunity
to attempt an Urgent Quest.  If you succeed at that Urgent Quest, you
will be granted access to the  next tier
of Quests . When you want to attempt an Urgent Quest,
you'll need to choose the   red notebook   at
the Quest Counter.  And that's all there is to it!  Oh, one more thing. I've got a few Quests
for you that take you to new hunting
grounds. They're grouped in with 2-star Quests if
you want to take a look. Okay! Boy, am I glad I'm done having to
to explain that. So how about that
Urgent Quest, Doodle? Fun times, right?  If anyone can succeed in the eyes of the
Guild, I know it's you. Yay rah rah! I was looking for you, Doodle.
I've got a Quest that should un-zonk
the villagers of Harth. You'll have to take on the  Tetsucabra  ,
of course. It's a poisonous, frog-like
menace that few have hunted successfully.  As far as locale goes...
Oh, you'll be going to the Sunken Hollow,
a naturally formed volcanic field. The Tetsucabra thrives deep in
vast caverns which are lit only by
holes to the surface. It's a risky venture, but the people of
Harth are counting on you to
get their lives back to normal.  You'll save the village, but you'll also
gain clout in the eyes of the Guild --
two Gargwa with one stone for you.  Oh, and if you're looking for Harth's
Quest Gate, it's next to the
Open-air Kitchen. Don't get lost!  The folks of Harth are back to
normal. It feels good to do a good deed!
Vicariously, I mean.  Now we just need the villagers to figure
out why the lava stopped in the first
place. By the way, The Man filed a Quest, if
you're interested in helping him out.
He needs materials to build our ship. Here's the one. It's called:
 " Shipshape Skin  ."  The rubbery hides are handy
for waterproofing. How clever!
Good luck hunting that Gypceros, Doodle! Hi, Doodle. I heard the story.
The Street Cook needs your help. The relevant Quest is called
"  Road Work ."
So you need to capture a monster this time.  To do it, Doodle, you'll need to have
 Tranq Bombs , and a   Shock Trap   or   Pitfall
Trap   as well. The Supply Items will cover you to some
extent, but you can always bring your
own just to be extra safe.  You can also buy materials at the Market to
build your own traps, if you want to have
a look. Any questions? Of course you have
questions...  Oh, you want to know about that hunter with
the lance the boss was talking to.  That's right, you don't know the story... Those four hunters are known as the
  Ace Hunters . The Guild sends them out with important,
sometimes top secret missions. The one with the lance was a member of our
caravan until recently.  When the mission from the Guild came in,
however, he left.  Not that there are any hard feelings.
I, for one, am happy to see him in such
good health.  I know all about it, Doodle. The culprit
behind the lava stoppage is none other
than a monster... The grim, and yet strangely groovy,
  Nerscylla ! It uses status afflictions of all kinds to
corner its prey. Take it down and Harth will get its
lava flow back. Which means
WE can get our ship!  While you're at it, Doodle, I'd also like
to ask a tiny favor. Very tiny.
Microscopic, really.  It can wait until you get back, but could
you reenact how the Nerscylla uses
its pincers? Science wants to know.  You know, just flail your arms around so
I get the picture. *huff, huff* Like this!
I'll have my notebook ready to sketch it. ...Are those daggers I see in your eyes?
What's the matter? Oh, I know! You want credit. Don't worry,
I'll put your name below the sketch.  Happy Urgent Questing, Doodle!  Whew! That was an ordeal and a half.  I'm glad no one was hurt. The Arluq made
it through unscathed, too. Doodle, I've never seen a monster like
that in ANY of my books. Seriously.
It looked downright ominous, huh?  Its wings spread in front of us like a
tumultuous storm cloud trying to swallow
the very sun. ...Too dramatic? Anyway, you saved our
hides, and for that I say THANK YOU. Plus, we accidentally washed up in the
secret location of Cheeko Sands.
What are the odds?! Cheeko Sands isn't your everyday
village. It's entirely Felynes plus one
Wyverian chief. Ooh, high fantasy! Let's break out our D20s... I mean, let's
decide what we want to do here. ...What's that? A Wild Palico wants
you to deal with a  Congalala ?
Fair enough. I'm sold!  Let's call the Quest "  Wild
Palico Panic ." To hunt the Congalala,
you'll need to go to the Primal Forest. Some call it the Cradle of Life, which
explains the abundant flora and fauna. And it also explains why a giant monster
like your mark would want to move in.  I kind of wish I could see the ecosystem
first hand... Gah! I digress.  Let's get you on your way, Doodle.
The Congalala awaits!  Oh, and if you're wondering, Cheeko Sands's
Quest Gate is right next to me. Don't get lost! Oh! Doodle, you'll never guess what I
just saw. A shooting star!  Two, actually. They fell toward
Sunsnug Isle like arrows carrying
some important message. ...Huh? You mean they actually WERE
carrying a message from the Meowster
Hunters? They had a run in with a  Zamtrios  ? Wow... Does this mean my wish that I
wake up tomorrow with a notebook jam-
packed with monster info won't come true?  Well, moving on. It sounds like you
need to help the Meownster Hunters and
hunt that Zamtrios down. That will take you to...
The Frozen Seaway. As you might have guessed from the name,
the Frozen Seaway is a teeth-
chatteringly cold hunting ground.  You absolutely need to take along some
Hot Drinks.  Monsters can't afford to skip a meal in
such cold climes, so only creatures with
specialized organs make evolution's cut. Make sure you don't get chomped from
behind and digested by one of said organs,
okay, Doodle? Although if you do, remember to show me
the bite marks on your hiney so I can
make a sketch of them. For science. Hey Doodle, I have a Quest for you from
the Cheeko Sands Chief. She needs you to
hunt a   Najarala  . As I understand it, the Najarala is
a cunning monster that doggedly chases
down its prey. Yikes!  The Chief says it has started to prowl
just a little too close to the edge of
the village.  As you know, the villagers helped us
drag home the Arluq and pick up our
cargo when we had trouble at sea.  The least we can do to pay them back --
and by "we," I mean you -- is hunt down
one itty bitty monster, right?  Oh, I should also mention that hunting
the Najarala will allow us to expand
our kitchen and level up its ingredients. Plus you'll score points with the Guild.
Three Gargwas with one stone!  Doodle, this is it. You knew this moment
would come. Or I did, at least.  It's time to confront the mysterious
 Gore Magala , the monster the Guild
was tracking... And the same son of a Gunlance who
knocked our beloved ship for a loop. The Ace Hunters did everything in
their power, but now... Now!  This vital mission has been placed
squarely in your squarish hands. Behold my notebook! See how its pages
twitch and its binding burns for
scribblings of a higher caliber! I chose to travel the world to know
every last thing there is to know about
monsters, and you know what?  I picked a couple of winners when I
set my sights on the boss and then you. Doodle... DOODLE! I am COMPLETE!
*huff, huff* Or at least I will be once you nail that
sucker and give me all the deets.  Anyway, as the boss would say...
*deep breath*  You're the one to get it done!  Hi, Doodle. The boss told me what's up.
In fact, I jotted down the name of the
operation. Let's see... Ah, here it is.  "Operation Kindred Hunter is Gonna Mine
Us Some Coal so We Can Make Our Airship,
but Don't Get Ate by a   Gravios ."  ...Yup. I'm really glad I wrote that down.  Looks like you'll be heading for the
Volcanic Hollow. Exciting! I mean, who doesn't like active volcanic
regions that bake you alive and spew magma
all over the place? Anyway, remember to pack some Cold Drinks
to stave off the heat and prevent your
Health from draining.  Keep an eye out for large, magma-loving
monsters on the prowl.  Oh, and while you're at it, Doodle,
I'd also like to ask a tiny favor.
Very tiny. Microscopic, really.  It can wait until you get back, but could
you reenact how the Gravios
shoots its thermic rays? For science. If you could do the roar, too, that would
be a hundred times better. I'll have my
notebook ready to scribble it all down. ...Are those daggers I see in your eyes?
What's the matter this time? Oh no, I did it again! You want credit.
Don't worry, I'll put your name below
the sketch. Better? Of course it is!  Now go stabbios that Gravios! Doodle, I know it took a while, but I
have a Quest for you that's different from
anything else you've ever done.  ...Huh? What's on your mind? You look
stressed out. Ohh. The boss's Article. It's an ill omen?
You don't say. Well, maybe my Quest will take your mind
off it. Can I give it to you? Can I, can I?
Good.  It's called " Advanced: Odd Ape
Out ." Hmm... This one looks like
it's a tough one. You need to hunt a  Congalala , but the
Guild sent along some unnerving
fine print... "This Congalala does not exhibit
normal behavior. Use extreme caution." Well that sounds...interesting! You'll be hunting at Heaven's Mount.
Have you been yet? As the name suggests, the mountain's peak
juts above the clouds, so it almost looks
like it's floating in midair.  Of course, there's a tradeoff for all
that scenic beauty. You have to watch
for falling rubble and tricky terrain.  And let's not even get into the weird
ruins from who-knows-when or all the
vicious monsters... Yikes! And by "yikes," I mean yay! Aren't you
excited to check it out, Doodle? What better reason to visit Heaven's
Mount than to hunt a Congalala?  Oh, right. Cathar's Quest Gate is next to
the Open-air Kitchen, if you're
wondering. Don't get lost!  Doodle, the boss has been acting very
strangely lately. I think he wants answers about the
frenzied monsters and is frustrated
that he can't just go find them. Don't be surprised if he ups and vanishes
all of a sudden like some bird you
scared away. That's just how he is.  But enough about him. What's this look of
determination on your face? Oh, the Elder wants you to go to the
Heaven's Mount to investigate? Ha-hah! I am so way ahead of you, Doodle.
Check out all these nice, shiny new
Quests I've written up! Number one, a   Zinogre !
Number two, a   Seltas Queen  !
And lastly, a   Rathalos  ! A Peerless Hunter, a Weighty Empress,
and a King of the Skies. Wow! Any one of these would be a challenge.
Do I know how to pick 'em or what? ...What? D-don't be silly. Why would I
pick only the monsters I want to sketch? H-how selfish do you think I am?
Heh heh... Heh.  Hi, Doodle. I guess you already know,
but the boss hopped a Guild airship and
  went who-knows-where  . Surprisingly, he left a message this time.
Let me read it aloud and fake the accent
as best I can. *ahem* "If you're readin' this, Kindred Hunter,
then y'ain't dead yet -- and that's grand.
I'll be at the Academy for a spell. "Somebody's got to get to the bottom of
this frenzied monster business. "I'll be back faster'n a pack of Jaggi
at the meat market, so hang tight. "Whilst I'm gone, you keep explorin'
Heaven's Mount and figger out what you
can on your end. Take care of the others. "You're the one to get it done!"  ...And that's all he wrote. Sounds
like the boss is putting in work, too. Well, you heard him! Looks like you're
on Heaven's Mount duty. You're the
only one qualified, after all! Heh heh. Hold on to your britches, Doodle! The Guild has just issued a mission of
the highest importance to every hunter.  ...Okay, I'll admit I'm a little excited.
Hee! Are you ready? We get to go hunt the   Tigrex   --
the bane of every hunter! The unwritten page in my notebook!
The monstrous hole in the monsterpedia
that is my heart! *huff, huff*  Sorry... Got a little carried away there. According to the Guildmaster, the
Guild will pile accolades upon the hunter
who pulls this mission off. However, it calls for more caution than
other hunts. "EXTREEEME caution."
They wrote it in caps with three E's... I wonder what all the fuss is about.
Well, until the boss gets back, I say we
all do our dangest. Lead us by example, Doodle! Doodle... Doodle... Whew. Listen. The Guild just issued the most incredible
Quest...and they specifically asked for
you to do it. That's right. They want you to hunt down
the  Shagaru Magala  . It says, "Proceed immediately to the
Sanctuary and eliminate the elder
dragon." I...I can barely breathe here. I never,
ever dreamed my notebook would be worthy
of elder dragons. But here we are. Because of you and the boss, a new
dream of mine seems to come true every
other day.  ...Listen, Doodle. This is just another
day and another hunt. I'll be here doing my usual job and
reading my usual books. So just...do me a favor and come back
safe like you usually do. Usual is good.
Okay?  I want to hear all about that elder
dragon. My scribbling fingers are ready!  Just promise you'll come back, Doodle.  Big news, Doodle! Happy news, at that!  You just got clearance to take on
  Guild Quests  ! Bravo!  Guild Quests are  Quests with a twist
issued by the Quest Bureau.  Once you've investigated monsters while on
Expeditions and received clearance
for a Guild Quest...  Well, then the Quest will be temporarily
added to   Guild Quests   in the menu. Careful, though. You need to do one more
step before you can attempt the Quest. You have to   register the Quest   using
Manage Lists. This is important! Only registered Guild Quests can be
  attempted at any time from the
Gathering Hall , so don't forget!  As for the Guild Quests themselves,
they have unique rules. Rule #1: Completing them raises the
difficulty level, Rewards, and more.  Rule #2: You can exchange Guild Quests
using StreetPass.  Talk to the Courier in the red
cap if you want to change your StreetPass
settings.  Also, keep in mind that when you exchange
a Guild Quest, the level will be what
it was when you   first received it . Anyway, that's the gist of it.  The Everwood sure is lovely, though...
I wish I could go on Expeditions.
Be sure to stay safe and have fun out there. Woohoo! The time has come!  Proud hunters from across the land
are gathering in Val Habar, ready
to prove they've got what it takes!  I don't know about you, but I'm curious.
...Ah! You look like you want to take
them on, too.  Don't worry, I won't stop you. The Quest
is called  " Advanced: Order of Magnitude  ."  Now get out there and snatch the glory
and honor from right under those other
hunter-wannabes' noses! Can no one complete this stupid Quest?  Oh, hi, Doodle! I bet YOU can handle this.  Congrats, by the way, on being the talk
of pretty much all of Val Habar.
You tabloid fodder, you! Your hunterly physique graces almost
every page of today's edition. I know, because I drew the pictures.
I mean, who doesn't need a second job
these days?  Anyway, you look like you need a
challenge, so take this: not one, but
TWO  frenzied Tigrex ! They've been tearing apart villages
across the land and NO one has been able
to stop them.  But you're not "no one," are you?
I can see it on your face.  Well, the Quest you want to check out is
called   " Advanced: Hell Hunters  ."  Go out there and wring the glory right
out of those monsters' necks! Yeehah!  Here comes the main event you've been
waiting for, Doodle!  Enter...the   Dah'ren Mohran  ! Woohoo!
Huzzah! Bacachickazaw!  *Huff, huff* Sorry. Got carried away
again. To be honest, I didn't get a really good
look at the Dah'ren Mohran that day we
first met.  The boss said to hide below deck for my
own safety, and by the time I crawled out,
it was already a speck in the distance.  Well, now that we have another stab at
this, I say we knock that monster for a
loop-de-loop! It's time to rise above! And time to add another page to my
increasingly spectacular notebook. Interested? Good. The Quest is called
  " Advanced: Fleet Action  ."  Now get out there and wrangle us up
a little glory! *Sigh* To go, or not to go?
What is a Guildmarm to do?  ...What? Oh, hello, Doodle. No, no, pay
my life crises no mind. ...Huh? You want me to tell you what's
on my mind? Oh, but I COULDN'T.
...OK, I will. Have I ever told you about my   first love  ? Once, I visited Tanzia, a port famed for
trade and commerce. Maybe you've heard
of it?  While scouring the mountain for the
legendary Hercudrome, I met this guy. He was tall and brave, his stride gallant.
We exchanged one fiery glance before I
knew I had been smitten. *sigh* ...What? Did I TELL him? Are you crazy?
I would have died of shame! Oh my
gosh, no! I could never do it myself. But YOU could... I don't suppose you
would go track him down and tell him how
I feel? ...You will? Oh, THANK you. I hear he's
in the Volcanic Hollow as we speak. I'll go ahead and write up a completely
selfish Quest called  " Whole Lava Love ."  If you see him, tell him how much I love
him and that he has a nice tail.
That last part is optional. Doodle, where have you been? I've been
on pins and needles since you left!  So...how did it go? Did you tell my
love how I feel?  ...Huh? All you saw was a Brachydios? Oh, Doodle, you're such a kidder!
Surely you knew?  Brachydios   is exactly the hunk
of burning love I'm talking about! Did you
SEE that tail?  How did he react when you told him
my feelings? Did he blush? Gosh. I wrote this while you were gone.
It's a  passionate love letter  .
Carry it like a badge of honor! Sorry I used so much pink.  I heard all about "Operation Pophammer,"
and I think it's swell. You heard me --
swell! But what is it with Harth and the
  Tetsucabras ? Are they bound by
fate or something?  I mean, first the whole village disaster
thing, and now the diggers manage to dig
up ANOTHER one? Behind all those jolly smiles, the
villagers must be really hurting from
the hikes in their insurance premiums. Anyway, you came here for a Quest, so
here's the Quest:   " Hammer It Out ."  Now, go out there and hammer out a...
well, a hammer, I guess.  I heard all about "Operation Pophammer,
Part Deux." So this time the diggers ran into a
  Gravios ? The people of Harth
can pretty much forget about insurance. Anyway, the Quest is  " Hammer It Home  ."  May this all come to a happy,
hammerly end. Doodle! What in the heck is going on?!  I know the villagers of Harth reeeally
want to whip up a new hammer, but WHAT?  They dug up a   Teostra's  lair?!
Getting struck by lightning would be less
of a surprise. Ugh... AGH! *huff, huff* Sorry, I'm just overwhelmed.  Understandably, the Teostra is
not happy about the holes dug in its turf.
It's tearing the Volcanic Hollow apart! You'd better get going on a little Quest
that I like to call  " Advanced: Deep Trouble  ."  Don't be shocked if the villagers may have
all been hauled off for insurance fraud.
"Peace has been restored," my hide! Anyway, may your hammer-making be
hammerful and all that. What's up, Doodle? A Cowardly Palico?
You don't say.  I suppose it's not easy to go on Quests
when your courage has been swayed.  Personally, I would kill for the chance
to run headlong into danger if it meant
I got to see monsters up close. Of course, they'd probably rip my head
off my shoulders... But I really did dream
of becoming a hunter once. Anyway.  The   Nerscylla  hunt you're looking
for is called  " Arachnophobia ."  No chickening out! Heh heh. Another request from that Cowardly
Palico, Doodle? Got it covered.  The   Najarala   hunt you're looking
for is called  " Fear Factor ."  You know, Doodle, the Cheeko Sands Chief
has told me a few things.  For example, did you know your cowardly
Palico's father was the Chief's
husband's Palico? A ways back, after they washed up in
Cheeko Sands and her husband went
missing... His Palico stayed behind and defended
the village admirably.  *Sniff* It's such a touching story.
I can't help but... *honk* *sniff*  Holy Felvyne! I can't believe the monster
the Cowardly Palico was freaking out
about is an A-ka-ka- Akantor ! That would shake ANYONE's courage.
Maybe even yours, Doodle.  But I'll go ahead and give you the Quest
anyway. It's called  " Advanced: Stand Tall  ."  If I could just wax poetic for
a second...  Maybe it's the act of confronting our
fears that defines courage. And to see a chance to conquer it and
not take it is what defines cowardice.  Chew on that the next time you walk
through the Quest Gate, eh, Doodle? Doodle, I have a Quest from the
Cathar Elder. It's of the "hush hush"
variety, if you know what I mean. Basically, he wants you to  capture a
Seltas  . And he wants you to do it without the
Grand Guru finding out. Why ruffle
any feathers, if you know what I mean. The Quest is filed as   " Catch and Release ."  Remember! Hush hush. Lots of hushing. Doodle, I have a request from a boy in
Cathar. It's of the "hush hush"
variety, if you know what I mean.  Basically, he wants you to  capture a
Zinogre . And he wants you to do it without the
Grand Guru finding out. I guess it's
supposed to be a surprise. The Quest is filed as   " See the Lightning ."  Remember! Hush hush. Lots of hushing. Doodle, the Grand Guru in Cathar
has requested someone eliminate a
 Kushala Daora . Sightings of this elder dragon have
already been reported in Pokke Village
and Jumbo Village. The reports make specific note of weather
disruptions whenever the Kushala Daora
appears. The Quest is called
" Advanced: Wicked Wings  ,"
if you want to take a look.  I went ahead and reinforced my notebook's
binding in case I have to jot anything
down in the middle of a storm. Really? Uh-huh... Oh, that is so
interesting. What a riot! You don't say. ...Huh? Oh, Doodle! Sorry about that.
Here for some Quests? I'm sorry. The Ace Cadet keeps
hounding me while I'm trying to work,
so I went into auto-reply mode.  But forget about that. I have some
seriously spectacular news!  That's right. The   Gore Magala !
This Quest is sure to make you squeal.
I squealed, like, twice already. The Quest! Is called!
  " Crazy Stupid Love ."  I jokingly suggested the Ace Cadet
give it a go, and he was all gung ho.  I have to give him credit for his taste.
While deadly, the Gore Magala is a
very likable monster. ...What? Are you asking me if I care
about the Gore Magala more than
I do the Ace Cadet?  I feel like this question may be a trap.
Can I pretend to be busy with
paperwork now? Wow! That is, like... You're such
a kidder. Tell me another one!  ...Huh? Oh, Doodle! Sorry about that.
Here for some Quests? I'm sorry. The Ace Cadet won't
stop hounding me while I'm trying to
work, so I went into auto-reply mode. But forget about that. I have even
more amazing news! That's right. The   Rajang  !
Once you get its mane bristling, the whole
Primal Forest turns into a golden storm. This Quest is sure to make you squeal.
I squealed, like, three times already. The Quest! Is called!
  " Advanced: Tough Love  ."  I jokingly suggested the Ace Cadet
give it a go, and he was all gung ho.
Again! If he gets totally hooked on
Rajangs, am I allowed to
take credit?  ...What? Are you asking me if I'm
starting to fall for him? Because the answer is yes. My heart
absolutely belongs to the Rajang. Oh! Doodle. The Ace Cadet dropped
by earlier to bother me. Again. He said he wants to get "cozy." When I asked for further clarification,
he thrust a monster Gem into my hands and
said, "A token of my affection."  But I believe he meant "affliction."
I believe he may be clinically insane. Oh! Wait. Maybe he wants to join my
League of Monsterphiles. I mean, who
wouldn't?  You're interested, too, right? Any good
League of Monsterphiles needs more than
one member, after all...  Why are you slowly edging away like that? Doodle! The Guild wants you to  investigate
the Everwood  . A rare monster has been sighted there,
and I'm afraid there's no time to lose.  Since this is direct from the Guild, I'll
file it under   Urgent Quests . Be aware that the rules for this Quest
are the same as those of standard Quests.  For example, you will fail if your Health
runs out three times. If you pull it off, though, the same
monster may turn up during Expeditions.
Just a hunch I have. Anyway, pack those Antidotes and
let's get this show on the road! Doodle! The Guild wants you to  investigate
the Everwood  . A rowdy monster has been sighted there
and I'm afraid there's no time to lose.  Since this is direct from the Guild, I'll
file it under   Urgent Quests . Be aware that the rules for this Quest
are the same as those of standard Quests.  For example, you will fail if your Health
runs out three times. If you pull it off, though, the same
monster may turn up during Expeditions.
Just a hunch I have. Anyway, pack those Antidotes and get this
show on the road! Doodle! The Guild wants you to  investigate
the Everwood  . A beautiful but dangerous monster has been
sighted there, and I'm afraid there's no
time to lose. Since this is direct from the Guild, I'll
file it under   Urgent Quests . Be aware that the rules for this Quest
are the same as those of standard Quests.  For example, you will fail if your Health
runs out three times. If you pull it off, though, the same
monster may turn up during Expeditions.
Just a hunch I have. You there! Doodle!
...Yes, you. How many "Doodles" are there? How does it feel to take on Quest after
Quest and say, "Pfft! I've spat out harder
Quests for breakfast!"?  You've completed them all. And, honestly,
I'm grateful, as are all the people
you've helped.  I, the Guildmarm, sincerely thank
you on behalf of the Guild.
YOU DA HUNTER!  ...Sorry, I was put up to saying that.  Anyway, because no hunter's job is ever
done, I've got a request here from the
boss himself!  It's called   " The Caravaneer's Challenge  ."
I like the sound of that!  If that doesn't bust your hunter you-
know-whats, then I don't know what will.  Now get on out there, you show off! Git!  Un...be...LIEVABLE, Doodle!
How do you do it? How are you so
gosh darned amazing? I can just picture you looking those
Quests right in the eye and saying,
"Pfft! Give me a REAL challenge!"  Un...be...LIEVABLE! I can't even believe how unbelievable!
I mean... AHH! Anyway, I'll stop kissing up, but
seriously? You blow average hunters
right out of the proverbial water, Doodle.  Hey Doodle! Congrats!
...What? You haven't heard yet?
Well then, allow me to make your day! You've been given clearance to take on
 G-rank Expeditions  !
Hooray! If you wanna give 'em a go, just open
the   World Map  and touch the
G-rank Expedition icon.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC003 (The Man).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC003 (The Man).txt
SIZE: 19432 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:41:10
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: db7a6b4f3ffa60b329f580c0bb57164ac8d7d8bbfdbf98731cecc3e2cbfef9a3
================================================================================

﻿Now. Shall we? Until next time. Your Item Box is full. Clean it up if you want your gift. I heard you hunted a Konchu.
The Guildmarm told me. Konchu materials are useful.
They forge good arm protection.
...If you are interested. The young hunter there. He wants to
upgrade his weapon. But he lacks the
materials. A shame. Do you have materials for an upgrade?
If you do, I can help. The Caravaneer.
He was looking for you. Go see what he wants. I see the Caravan is growing.
The more the merrier. They say strangers are just friends
waiting to happen. Who will be next? Behold. In honor of our growing numbers,
I have built this sign. It is the Caravan members in silhouette.
You cannot tell?  sigh  All the Harth villagers are lying on the
ground. This is probably not a good thing. We must help the people of Harth. They cannot show me their secret
techniques while unconscious. You have hunted the Tetsucabra.
This is good. The villagers have recovered.
You should speak with their Chief. I will design the ship. Of this, you
need not worry. But I need Gypceros materials to
complete its construction. Go hunt a Gypceros for me.
I will wait. Cathar...
Did you know Cathar is my
grandfather's birthplace? He never spoke of it, besides the name. For this, there must be some reason.
Did he mean to protect me from something? I never expected the name to meet my
ears again. Little Miss Forge is helping
me design the ship. I find her intriguing. Her words thrash
like a Deviljho. Her wit burns like
a Rathian. She tells me she dreams of leaving
Harth and seeing the world. Congratulations on not being dead. The Street Cook has returned.
He wishes to have a word with you. Have you spoken to the Street Cook?
...Capture a Gendrome. I see. It is good to see the Lancer again.
Have you spoken with him? He used to hunt for us. The Caravan. Now he works for the Guild. They have him
investigating some new monster. The Harth Chief was looking for you. He knows why the lava in the volcano
has ceased its flow. The Little Miss will go far.
Her eyes sparkle, and her heart is
straight and true. I sometimes marvel at human curiosity
and ingenuity. Sometimes. To be less obtuse: the ship design is
her work. You aren't hurt? ...Good.
The rest of the Caravan made it. To reach Cathar, it seems we
must fight our way there. Are you all right?
Never fear. We are unharmed. You saved the Caravan. This will not
soon be forgotten. It was the leader of the Ace Hunters who
rescued you. He pulled you out of the sea. You should thank him. He was very worried.
Or constipated. I am not certain. Have you visited the Sunsnug Isle?
The Headwhiskress was looking for you. Have you been to Sunsnug Isle?
The Meownster Hunters are waiting. The Cheeko Sands Chief was looking for you.
Just so you know. Have you spoken to the Caravaneer?
The Little Miss's ambitions have just
sprouted wings. She suggests we fashion an airship from
our old vessel. Then we could strike out
for Cathar by air. The kitchen has gotten bigger.
You have done us all a kindness. The Street Cook's smiles must be
contagious, because even the elder
cracked a grin. A letter arrived for the Caravaneer.
It appeared to be urgent. The Ace Palico has gone missing... Do you think he went to help the others?
I hope he is smarter than that... The Caravaneer would voice his confidence
in you at times like this. I have no such gift with words, but I
believe in you all the same. Well done. I hope my forging aided you
in this thing you have accomplished. Let us go now to Harth.
We have an airship to discuss. We should speak with the Harth Chief
about building that airship. Can you believe the Caravan will soon
take to the skies? I shall ensure the ship is airworthy.
The Little Miss here will handle design. Cathar is the place of my
grandfather's birth. Never did I think I would visit it...
The notion sends my mind in circles. What do you suppose my grandfather's
home is like? Will I see things the same way that he
saw them? Cathar, wait for me. The son of
your son shall be at your gates soon. My grandfather followed in the footsteps
of the Legendary Artisan and left Cathar
at a remarkably young age. I hope I return there with half the
wisdom and skill as he had. Long has the Caravaneer sought the truth
behind the Article, and I with him. Never did it yield its secrets...but I
had always assumed it was not meant to. The Caravaneer must return to his old
roost. Something preys upon his mind. But do not worry. These bouts of
curiosity come often, and usually end
without incident. While the Caravaneer is absent, we should
heed the Elder and investigate the
Heaven's Mount. The Caravaneer has returned. Have you and
he spoken? He seeks a word with you. Hurry to the Shrine in Cathar.
The Grand Guru is waiting for you. And the Grand Guru must not be
kept waiting. Go forth without fear. You will always
have our support and encouragement. Please save my grandfather's birthplace...
Save Cathar. So... Did you find your time
away liberating? I visited Cathar the other day.
...Alone. I cannot explain it, but while I am there,
I feel as though something lost has been
returned to me. How long has it been? Shall I swing my
hammer for you, friend? It would please me to work on your
equipment again. Materials are meant to be used, not saved.
They serve no purpose lining the pouches
of hunters. If you seek to fell stronger monsters,
upgrade your weapon. This is sound advice
that I give you. If you gather adequate materials, I can
forge you new weapons. Or, I can use materials to upgrade the
weapon you are using and make it stronger.
There is wisdom in either choice. Some armor is intended for Blademasters,
some for Gunners. Take care to select armor appropriate to
your weapon. Remember to monitor the Sharpness of
close-range weapons. Sharper weapons work
better against tough-skinned monsters. Green is sharper than yellow, which is
sharper than orange. Keep this in mind when picking out
a weapon. The first number you should be looking at
when considering armor is Defense.
The higher it is, the less you get hurt. The Caravaneer is quite fond of you.
That much is plain at a glance. We have come to Val Habar in search
of three traveling companions -- a cook, a merchant...and a hunter. The Guildmarm travels on foot to villages
that have no local Guild facilities. How her legs keep up with her enthusiasm
is beyond me. Materials are meant to be used, not saved.
They serve no purpose lining the pouches
of hunters. If you seek to fell stronger monsters,
upgrade your weapon. This is sound advice
that I give you. Different monsters exhibit different
Resistances to the Elements. And you can harness those Resistances
by using the monster's materials to
make armor. Examine Resistance values closely and
choose the right armor for you. One very important aspect of armor is
its Resistances. For example, armor with poor Fire
Resistance will light up like kindling if
hit with a monster's fiery breath. Remember to think about what monster you
will be taking on and choose Resistances
that make sense. Every piece of equipment is allotted a
certain number of Skill Points. Skills will be activated if the total
Skill Points from all your armor combined
reaches a high enough number. Do you have an Armor Sphere? If so,
you can upgrade a piece of armor. This can be a swifter and sounder solution
than buying new equipment, especially if
you are attached to what you already own. Fire, Water, Ice, and other Elements
sometimes inflict Blights. Blights can be healed with Items, but wise
hunters prevent them altogether by
wearing armor with the proper Resistances. Some weapons have multiple
upgrade paths. Think carefully about
which suits you best. Like you, hunter, your Palicoes will
benefit greatly from stronger armor. You can change their equipment via the
Palico Board. The Caravaneer rarely addresses people
by their real names. As a result, I fear I have already
forgotten yours... What was it again? Your return from the hunt is always a
grand event for the Guildmarm. She readies her notebook as if you are
bringing home the secrets of life, and she
has but one chance to jot them down. The other day, I saw the Street Cook
furiously jotting down ideas. He was
trying to deduce your favorite recipe. But after one too many drinks to calm his
nerves, he ate the notes by accident...
Never drink and jot. I could converse with the
Wycoon until the ocean runs dry.
A truly fascinating fellow, that one. The others and I just had a meal on
the cook. But for some reason, only the
Guildmarm was served dessert... A lively caravan is the best caravan.
I hope ours continues its journey for
many, many days to come. Cathar's winds are as gentle as
its people. I feel at peace here. And knowing that my grandfather saw these
same sights as a youth only sharpens
those feelings. Cathar's Grand Guru has a
sibling with whom I am told he is
quite close. He once entrusted his office to his
younger brother so he could descend the
mountain and discover the world. I wonder if his journey at all mirrors
that of my grandfather... When he was young, my grandfather followed
in the footsteps of the Legendary Artisan
and left the village. Down in the world below, he encountered
the craftsman's miraculous armor, and was
mesmerized by each and every piece. Or so the story goes... How long has it
been since I last heard it told? It seems the situation is dire.
The Cathar Elder told me all I needed
to know. Have you spoken with the Grand Guru?
He has gone to the Shrine. My grandfather was entranced by the many
works of the Legendary Artisan. Of particular interest was elder dragon
armor, which some say possesses power
over the very weather. Forging that armor was his dream, and he
never let those around him forget it. The people of Cathar are doing
all in their power to aid the Grand Guru. I, for one, am grateful. Cathar meant
a great deal to my grandfather, just as it
does to me. How goes the hunting with friends? If you obtain good materials, bring
them here. My armor will make you the
talk of all your comrades. You must be the brave one
that was on the ship. I heard about
your feats from the Caravaneer. He and I are old friends. Me? I'm  the
Smithy . I forge weapons and armor
from monster materials. Materials are of no use to you on their own,
but bring them to me and I'll put my hammer
to use...for a price, of course. Well, if you want to know more, check
out  Help  in the upper left
corner of the Touch Screen. Are you accustomed to the hunt now?
Are your weapons and armor holding up? I imagine you must be yearning for
better equipment...and I have just
the solution. Upgrades . To upgrade weapons, you need materials,
and for armor, you need an Armor Sphere . Here. I will give you an extra Armor
Sphere I had lying around. Use it to
upgrade a piece of your armor. What? ...Oh, the Article the Caravaneer
is always carrying around? A strange
object, it truly is. He and I have long sought to solve its
mystery. Sometimes alone, sometimes with
a grand caravan in tow. But many have since joined and left the
Caravan, and the Article's secrets remain
precisely that: secret. So, the Caravan has found its merchant. Have you heard what he has to say?
Quite the vivacious storyteller, that one. He runs an establishment known as the
Wyporium. Of special note there
is the Trading Post. It lets you trade your monster
materials for materials obtained in
distant lands. I can use whatever new materials you
acquire to produce weapons and armor. One day, my shelves will be filled with
 new equipment made from
these materials... I think you will be most impressed with
the results. Fine work hunting that Tetsucabra. The moment you felled it, the villagers of
Harth sprung to life and went off
to mine with a tune on their lips. Now we can build our ship.
I must say, I am excited! Allow me to handle the design. In the meantime, I need you to hunt a
 Gypceros . I require its materials to complete
the ship, you see. Talk to the Guildmarm.
I registered a Quest called
 " Shipshape Skin ." Once that is taken care of, the materials
I need should find their way onto
the market. Good luck. Splendid work hunting the Gypceros. Now that Gypceros materials are
on the market, I can gather what I need. The Caravan will soon have a fine ship
because of you. You should be proud. ...Oh. Have you spoken with the
Street Cook? He had a favor to ask
of you. Ah, before I forget -- let me run you
through the basics of  Palico equipment . To forge equipment for your Palicoes,
I need special materials called  Scraps . The  Meownster Hunters can
be used to obtain Scraps, if you want to
make your Palico's new gear. I will do the heavy lifting, of course.
Just bring the Scraps here, and I will
forge the equipment. Naturally, your Palicoes must equip new
weapons and armor for them to be
effective. Select " Manage Equipment " from the
Palico Board to equip new weapons and
armor. If anything is unclear, check out
 Help  on the Touch Screen. Well... Here we are. Do not worry about the village children.
They have been taken to safety. Even as the Arluq lifted them away, many
were still protesting -- insisting through
tears they would stay and guard Cathar. ...Do you think this will be the end
of it all? Is the Shagaru Magala really all that
stands between us and the Article's
secrets? The Caravaneer certainly has an ending
written out in his own head... And I believe him. How strange... When I met you, I never
imagined you would be the answer to this
riddle that has haunted us. Now go. Protect Cathar, and lead us
to the end of our grand quest. I know you can do it, so I will wait
here until the task is complete. The Kushala Daora...
I never thought I would hear the name
spoken aloud. My grandfather was born in Cathar,
you see. He left the village at a young age,
inspired by a famed craftsman known as
the Legendary Artisan who did the same. His one dream was to someday create the
Kushala Daora equipment forged by his
renowned predecessor. How odd, then, that I should return to
my grandfather's birthplace just as the
Kushala Daora appears? Perhaps destiny is one great circle,
guiding us back to our own beginnings. Whatever the case, I believe you may be
the one to see my grandfather's dream
to fruition. Tremendous work, taking down the
Kushala Daora! Thanks to you, my grandfather's dream will
finally come true! And more importantly, you have kept his
birthplace safe. Thank you for saving
Cathar. I am truly grateful to have met you,
as I am sure the Caravaneer is as well. You completed all the Caravaneer's
challenges? Now that IS a feat. Perhaps the ages will remember me simply
for having made the weapons and armor on
your back. And for that, I owe you at least this
token of thanks. While I have you here, let me tell you
about Bowgun Limiter Removal . Removing the Limiter allows you to alter
the weapon . For example, removing a Light Bowgun's
Limiter slows down movement and takes
away your Backstep and Rapid Fire. However, it also increases your ammo
capacity and allows you to switch ammo
types without executing a reload. Additionally, you can reload all your ammo
at the same time by pressing the X Button
and A Button at the same time. With Heavy Bowguns, removing the
Limiter slows movement and takes away your
ability to evade right after firing. You lose Crouching Fire as well. However, you can load more ammo, including
 WyvernFire ammo , and your firepower
gains a significant boost. Your shield will also soak up more damage,
if you happen to have that part attached. ...You can see how great an effect all
this can have on how you use your Bowgun. There is a catch, though. To remove the
Limiter, your Bowgun must have a 6-star
rarity or higher . Even after removing the Limiter, you can
restore its original functionality by
selecting " Reinstall Limiter ." But I have done more than my share of
talking for the day. Why not just give it
a try? You are more than capable. I see you have obtained some
Seregios materials. Melee weapons forged from those materials
gain a special property . I've tried forging with those materials
many times...and it seems they cause
blades to be born anew... Also, you may be able to restore the
weapon's Sharpness  by evading with it
drawn. Use Seregios weapons effectively,
and you may no longer need to
carry Whetstones. Bowguns you make with
Seregios materials gain a
new property as well. Evading while the weapon is drawn will
 load ammo automatically . You might never have to manually
load the Bowgun again. Whichever type of weapon you
choose, the benefits are obvious.
Why not try making one? I see you have obtained materials
from a special Gore Magala. Using special Gore Magala materials
in weapons causes those weapons to gain
a  special property . How to describe it... The weapons gain
both  positive and negative
Affinity values . As you know, a positive Affinity increases
the chance of causing heavy damage
and a negative one does the reverse. But, a weapon forged with these
Gore Magala materials can  convert a
negative Affinity to a positive one. How? It all happens after you overcome the
Frenzy virus. Let's say you have a positive
Affinity of 20 and a negative Affinity of 40. The negative Affinity of 40 will turn positive,
giving you a total positive Affinity of 60. Hunt with enough skill, and just maybe
you'll be able to get yourself the Affinity
you need to win the battle. Ah, just the person I wanted
to talk to. There's been a breakthrough in
smithing technology: Now I can make
your weapons even stronger! The process is called  Honing . With this technique, I can take a weapon
that's been upgraded as much as possible
using normal means, and make it even better. But...there is a catch.
Only weapons of Rarity 8
or higher can be Honed. And, I'm sad to say, I can't upgrade
Relics, and the weapon must have
already reached its max upgrade level. There are three ways you can Hone
your weapon: The first, Attack ,
enhances your attack power. The second,  Defense ,
beefs up your defensive power. The last,  Life , lets
you recover Health when you attack. Bring me a weapon that can be Honed
along with the necessary cash and materials,
and I'll forge you a REAL weapon! Hard at work, I see. I came up
with a design for some new armor
made of  Great Jaggi parts. If you get a full set, you'll get a skill that
makes you less prone to being Stunned. If you bring me enough materials I'll
make the armor for you. It'll make the
hunting life that bit easier. Hard at work, I see. I came up
with a design for some new armor
made of  Tetsucabra  parts. If you get a full set, you'll get a skill that
makes your Defense tougher. If you bring me enough materials I'll
make the armor for you. It'll make the
hunting life that bit easier. Hard at work, I see. I came up
with a design for some new armor
made of  Rathian parts. If you get a full set, you'll get a skill that
boosts your Health. If you bring me enough materials I'll
make the armor for you. It'll make the
hunting life that bit easier.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC004 (Palico).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC004 (Palico).txt
SIZE: 2339 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:13:02
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 55cbba00880c8139b61f03b4d0bd2ea72464adf6cdebf6ae8186eec6a985a682
================================================================================

﻿Ooh!Ooh! Hunter, Hunter!
Please hire me, meow! Pleeease! 

Well, this is quite the purrsnickament.
...Purrdrecka...whatever. I can't give you
anything if your Item Box is full, meow. Come back once you've cleaned house
a little, meow. 

My big sis wikes you...so I guess you
can hire me. How abowt it, nya? 

A Palico just isn't meant to fly solo...
 sniff   But everything you've heard about me
running around the Ancestral Steppe... wiping my purrthetic, tear-soaked face in
the grass every few, miserable steps...
is WRONG, meow! Hah! I welcome you to my Caravan,
hunter maggot! Worldly folk call me the
  Ace Palico  , meow. Palicoes of my caliber serve only the
finest hunters. I am the acme! The apex!
The pimpacle! ...Pantsicle. ...Whatever. I am the BEST Palico the world has ever
seen, meow!  nod nod   Sniff sniff  That odor... You smell like
inadequacy, kid. But never fear, meow!  With a  Palico   like me at your side, you
should be able to fumble your way through
some kind of hunting career, meow. All you have to do to unleash my arsenal
of purr-omising moves is meowster using
the  Palico Board   over there!  The Palico Board lets you set up
which Palicoes you want to   deploy   and
modify their   equipment , meow. Palicoes won't join you on the hunt unless
you tell us to deploy, so remember to
select   Deploy/Train   and set it up, meow. 

Purrhaps you could help me work towards
my own noble goal. Not that I need help,
meow.  You see, I am on the lookout for
 Sub Palicoes   who are willing to
serve me (the way you do).  You can acquire new Sub Palicoes from
other hunters, or directly hire
  Wild Palicoes  you meet in the field. Anyway, Wild Palicoes and Palico
equipment are like hairballs. They're sure
to come along if you're patient, meow.  In the meantime, try to wrap your flimsy
head around everything I've told you and
DEFINITELY meowster the   Palico Board  ! And while you're at it, meowster touching
  Help   in the upper left corner of the Touch
Screen. There's no shame in reading, meow! Got it, kid? Good! Then let's make this
the start of a beautiful, op-purr-essive
relationship, meow.  And don't fur-get to  set me up for
deployment   using the Palico Board, rawr!  

Here, this is for you, kid.
A Palico has to show his a-purr-eciation
now and then, meow.  blush



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC005 (Felyne Streetcook).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC005 (Felyne Streetcook).txt
SIZE: 17234 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:14:18
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 653db76ced90e1b5c15d5ebd792357ed7711c27550231de06721abedff4cdfb2
================================================================================

﻿So, what do you want? Come again, miao-kay? I'll open for business soon.
Come back later, miao-kay? Ah, Hunter. Back for more?
Sorry but no seconds! You've
eaten enough for today, miao-kay? Hei! What's this? Your Item Box is full.
Clean up the box and come again.
I'll wait here, miao. Ai...poor me. My purr-ecious
supplies are still not here! There's nobody who can help
me with this purroblem? Mi-hao! Ah, it's you with the
eyebrows! Thanks to you,
the delivery boy is safe!  But ai...my poor delivery boy has
hit another block in the road.  I wonder if anybody can help
me with this purroblem?  Ei? The Caravaneer wants to hire a
cook? What's the matter?
He doesn't use his eyes?  I'm right here, right in front of him!
He thinks he's too good for me?  Mi-hao! Ah, it's you with the eyebrows!
The delivery boy says xie xie for the
help. That means thank you. Wa, you're so much kinder than most
hunters. It's a shame I have to take
your zenny, ha!  Ei? The Caravaneer wants to hire a
cook? What's the matter?
He doesn't use his eyes?  I'm right here, right in front of him!
He thinks he's too good for me?  From today, I'll make sure that every meal
has the purr-fect taste -- just like the
meals Grandmother used to make! But don't start calling me
Grandmother, miao-kay?
You call me Grandmaster! Ha!  The Caravaneer, The Man, and the
Guildmarm will come to sample my
meals. I'm very nervous.  ...Ei? Why am I not nervous with you?
Because you're special, miao.
Very, very special.  purr   That Wyverian merchant man is a purr-culiar
guy. I asked what he likes for his evening
meal, and he said, "Surprise me."  He thinks he's clever, but I'm cleverer
than him. I'll put extra Kirin Butter in my
wok and he'll beg me for more.  I'll make him say, "Shut up and take
my zenny!" Ha! Xie xie, thank you. I am so
thankful to you and the Caravaneer
for the o-purr-tunity of a lifetime. This is the fur-st time I've traveled with so
many companions. I feel butterflies in my
stomach -- it's from my butterfly curry!  Hei! What's wrong with the villagers?
Even the Harth Chief looks
like he needs a cat nap! Ah, Hunter. I'll help you think
about the purroblem with the
floppy villagers.  Floppy villagers...
Floppy villagers...
...It's a difficult problem, miao?  Hei, Hunter! The Harth Chief was
looking for you.
Go see him, miao-kay? Hei, Hunter! If you capture
a Gendrome, I can level up
the ingredients I use. It's good for everybody, miao?
You win, the Troverians win...
Everybody will feel so good.  Ah, Hunter. Have you said
mi-hao to the Ace Hunters yet?
They look SO strong, miao? Ah, sorry. I don't mean they
are stronger than you.
You're the number one hunter, miao! I'll stay with you from fur-st to last,
even if the whole world turns its
back on you!  Ah, sorry. I do not mean the whole
world will turn its back on you!
...I'll stop now. Mi-hao, Hunter! What's wrong?
...Ah. Where did the Ace Hunters go?  They left earlier after eating
a meal. They said something
about an important mission...  Wa, Hunter! The Troverians say
my meal has the most delicious
taste they've ever had! I'm truly humbled. Purrhaps I should
live in Harth with these nice
people forever. Ha!  Wa! That was a real adventure!
The journey by ship is always
like this? I feel very bad for men and woman
and Felynes who work at sea, miao.  Ah, Hunter!
You're still in one piece, miao?  I spotted a Felyne paradise off
the coast of Cheeko Sands.
Let's go visit, miao?  Where do the Cheeko Sands
Felynes get their purr-oducts?
It's strange, miao?  But purrhaps I should take a leaf
from them and try using some back
street ingredients, too... Miao ha ha!  Ah, Hunter. The Headwhiskress from
Sunsnug Isle is looking for you.
Go see what she wants, miao-kay?  Ah, Hunter. The Meownster Hunters
have arrived at Sunsnug Isle.
Go see them when you can, miao-kay? Hunter, I've got happy news!
But I don't want to spoil
the surprise.  The Cheeko Sands Chief came up
with an idea that is SO good. Go see
her if you want to know, miao-kay?  Hunter, you went to see the
Cheeko Sands Chief? Her idea lets
us level up the ingredients!  It makes my kitchen bigger, too.
It is like a dream come true, miao?  Go hunt a Najarala so we
can get a bigger kitchen!  The Caravaneer says we can build
an airship once you hunt a
Najarala. I cannot imagine it. The Arluq
will fly like a bird? Then nothing
stops the Caravan, miao!  I want to see the Cheeko Sands Chief
and say xie xie. That means thank you.
When can we go see her? A pure white bird came carrying
a letter for the Caravaneer. Do you
know what it's about, miao? Why do you wait, Hunter?
The Ace Hunters are in trouble!
You must go on the Expedition now! The Ace Palico just ran by like a shot
of lightning! Where'd he go, miao? The Ace Palico says he is so sorry for
running off without asking.  He just wanted to protect the other
Ace Hunters. You must forgive him,
miao?  The Wyverian merchant man challenged
me to another cooking challenge.
We'll see whose cuisine reigns supreme! Wa, you worked SO hard, Hunter!
You make me so happy I cry.  sniff  So, do we get the airship now?
Let's go to Harth, miao! Hei, Hunter! Speak to the Harth Chief
about building the airship, miao-kay? Finally, Hunter!
The Caravan will sail through the
clouds in its very own airship!  Other caravans will be left waiting
in the dust, miao?  The airship is ready, Hunter!
The Wyverian merchant man asked me
to cook something appropriate... Purrhaps I'll cook Scalefish and
Heaven Bread, because soon
we SCALE the HEAVENS, miao-ha-ha! My heart's beating so fast, miao.
That ship will really fly?  By the way, the Caravaneer was
all worked up. He says he went
to get information in Cathar. Hunter! What's wrong? Ei? The Caravaneer's Article was an
omen of destruction all along...  The truth scares you? Don't be scared of that. Be scared
of not knowing. The Caravaneer
would say the same thing. Now, go find the Article's secrets! ...Ei? What's wrong?
The Caravaneer flew the nest?  Ha! I am sure he is safe. I gave him a lunchbox before he
went away on the Guild airship.
But where did he go?  Hunter, what happened to Cathar?
Everyone went into a slump again!  It is the Return of the Slump, miao!  What is the Shrine like?
I want to see it SO much, miao!  Shagaru Magala has come?
Then you must go, I understand...  But I am with you always, miao!
I am not strong, but I'll stick with
you from fur-st to last! You stay safe, Hunter. I'll make
a delicious meal for you while
you're gone, miao.  If the Guild interviews you,
remember -- it's all thanks to
my number one meals!  Mi-hao, Hunter. You are well?
I am well too.  Wa, it feels so good to say that!
Having the Caravan is having a
family to come home to, miao!  For the first time in a long time, I
went by myself to SO many villages
and cooked for SO many people...  They all loved me and my meals
SO much! It feels good to
be purr-pular. Soon my number one meals really will
be number one...in the whole world!  When I went on holiday, I got
headhunted by another caravan.
I told you, miao?  To go or not go, that is the
chowder. It may be a big
o-purr-tunity for me... ...Ha! Do not look so sad, Hunter.
I am just pulling your chain, miao?
You're so innocent, Hunter. Ha!  Mi-hao, Hunter. You were
drawn in by the smells of
my little cart, miao?  My meals have a   special effect
on hunters . One bite can send your
Health, Attack, and more through the roof! Every hunter should eat before going on a
hunt. It's common sense, miao?  You don't know what to order?
Choose high-level ingredients and
you'll get a Health boost fur sure. You want Skills? Choose fresh
ingredients and you'll receive
miow-velous Skills!  Use Vouchers to turn ingredients into
fresh ingredients. Don't skimp on
the Vouchers, miao-kay! Choose even one fresh ingredient and
you'll get a Stamina boost fur sure.
Choose two and the boost's even bigger! Sit here at the table and choose
two ingredients. Then choose how
you want them cooked. You can gain lots of dif-fur-ent bonuses
depending on what you choose, miao.  You don't know what to order?
Choose high-level ingredients and
you'll get a Health boost fur sure. You want Skills? Choose fresh
ingredients and you'll receive
miow-velous Skills!  Use Vouchers to turn ingredients into
fresh ingredients. Don't skimp on
the Vouchers, miao-kay! Sit here at the table and choose
two ingredients. Then choose how
you want them cooked. You can gain lots of dif-fur-ent bonuses
depending on what you choose, miao.  Ah, Hunter. Finish certain Quests
and you can level up the ingredients
I use. You must seize the day, miao? Then
you'll be happy, I'll be happy... It's two
King Turkeys with one stone!  Choose even one fresh ingredient and
you'll get a Stamina boost fur sure.
Choose two and the boost's even bigger! I've learned The Man's and the Wyverian
merchant man's favorite meals already.  But the Guildmarm likes what?
She's so hard to purr-lease...  But the Caravaneer's so easy to purr-lease:
I just fill his food with booze, miao!  Dine with your Palicoes and
they'll get a meal bonus too. And I'll only charge you for one person
even if you have two Palicoes with you! It's the truth! I sometimes blow my
own Hunting Horn, but I don't tell lies.  Did you know that a long time ago
I was the chef for the imperial court?  Then the imperial family got
scattered during a rebellion.  I'm still looking for them even now...  ...Ha! Don't look so surprised, Hunter.
I am just pulling your chain, miao?
You're so innocent, Hunter. Ha! Ah, Hunter. Going hunting again today?
You're so strong. But don't forget your
meal before you go. It's common sense. Ei? What's wrong, Hunter?
Oh, you want to know
my dreams for the future?  Okay, I'll tell you my favorite
dream. I sneak after you when
you go on a Quest for an egg. Then, when you're not looking,
I poke you in the back and run
for the hills!  Then I use the broken egg to make
scrambled egg to cheer you up
when you get back, miao!  Hei, Hunter! I just made oven-fired
Well-done Steaks for everyone in the
Caravan! Why didn't you come?  ...Ah. I forgot to invite you?  ...Ei? You want to know how I pass time
while you're out hunting? It is obvious, miao? I just think up
new jokes to play on the Wyverian
merchant man. He's so gullible!  ...You thought I practiced cooking?
You're so innocent, Hunter. So innocent!  Even if just one person uses a Voucher
at the Gathering Hall, it makes
everybody's ingredients fresh. It's a good reason to make hunting
friends, miao? Mi-hao! Welcome to the  Open-air Kitchen  .
You hungry? Then you came to the
right place. ...Ah! You are the hunter who drove off
the Dah'ren Mohran wearing just
your underwear, miao? Ha! I knew it. You are SO strong. I am the Street Cook, this kitchen's owner.
Eat here, and you'll get big bonuses like
  increased Health and Stamina  . So be sure to eat before every hunt.
It's common sense, miao? ...Ei? You don't know how to order?
Listen, I'll teach you. Step 1! Sit at the  table .
Step 2! Choose two  ingredients .
Step 3! Choose the  way of cooking  . I'll make you a meal with a
great taste every time! But...  You can only eat  ONCE before every hunt.
It's bad to eat too much, miao?  Well, if you don't understand anything, check
  Help   in the upper left corner of
the Touch Screen.  Here, I'll give you THIS as a
friendship token!
Use it anytime. Ai...I've got a big purroblem. The delivery
boy who delivers my supplies hit a
block in the road... ...Ah! You are the hunter on
the flyer? Hmmm... Your eyebrows are much
bigger on the flyer. Maybe you are a
greenhorn trying to pull a scam, miao?  ...Miao-eh. It doesn't matter.
Maybe you can still help me? My friend runs a barrel delivery
company, but he's late with my
supplies. I hear  Konchus  are causing big
problems on the road.  Wa, I can see that you are SO kind...
You want to help, don't you?
I am so thankful.  I submitted a Quest to the Guild.
I named it "  Chip Off the Old Blockade ."  Please help me with my purroblem,
hunter with the eyebrows. Ai... This is no good. Stupid delivery boy...
This always happens!  Hei! Hunter with the eyebrows! You came
just in time. Xie xie for helping the delivery
boy get unstuck. ...But he got stuck AGAIN.  This time a monster named " Seltas  "
is blocking the road. The delivery boy can't
pass! I know, I know. He's useless.  But the look on your face says you
want to help! Xie xie, Hunter!
I am so thankful, miao. I submitted a new Quest to the Guild.
I named it "  The Stinking Seltas ."  You succeed, and the level of my
 ingredients  will increase!
Everyone wins!  I'll leave the rest to you, hunter with
the purrfect eyebrows. Good luck, miao! ...Miao? What do you want,
hunter with the eyebrows?  Ei?! You are one of the Caravaneer's
companions? This is good news! I also became the Caravaneer's companion,
so I could cook for the Caravan. The
Caravaneer says my meals are number one! Here. I have a gift for you, my new
companion. I think it will be so useful
for you.  I hope you like my number one meals, Hunter.
They have the best taste!  Hunter, I thought of a way to
make the Troverians feel better:  I'll cook them some of my number one meals!
It's a good idea, miao? A full stomach is the
path to true happiness, after all.  But to make delicious meals
I need delicious ingredients! The vendor I do business with says they'll
send higher quality ingredients if I
capture a   Gendrome  . Hunter, you'll help me
capture a Gendrome, miao?
It'll be SO easy, I purromise. Ei? The Troverians already got better?
Ai... I thought of a good plan for nothing.
Ha! Oh well. Why not capture a Gendrome
anyway and we can upgrade
the ingredients! I already gave Guildmarm the Quest. I named
it "  Road Work ."  For monster capture, you need   Tranq Bombs ,
and   Shock Traps  or   Pitfall Traps . I recommend you take many in your pouch.
Good luck! Purr-fect work, Hunter! You captured
a Gendrome, so now I can upgrade the
kitchen ingredients.  Ah! I forgot to say. I heard the Chief solved
the mystery of Harth's lava purroblem.
You already spoke to him? ...Ah, I see.  Welcome home, Hunter. You like
the new and improved kitchen?  The Cheeko Sands Felynes delivered
 higher quality ingredients   and
renovated the kitchen as well. All thanks to you, Hunter! Xie xie!
(That means thank you!) But this is only a beginning.
I have many plans for the new kitchen.  You see, the Troverians say they'll
build a   Fancy Spit   for us so we can
cook Well-done Steak here in the kitchen. But to build the Fancy Spit, they need
materials from a   Rathian's  roost... So now you must hunt a Rathian! I already filed the Quest with Guildmarm.
I named it "  Troverian Trouble ."  Finish the Quest, and the
Fancy Spit is yours!  Don't forget to say xie xie to
the Cheeko Sands Chief, miao-kay?
Good manners are so important! Mi-hao, Hunter! Good news! Your hunt of
the Rathian gave the Troverians
safe passage... So they built the   Fancy Spit   for us!
Miao we can  cook Raw Meat  here in the
kitchen. It's SO easy. Step 1! Sit at the table.
Step 2! Choose to eat a meal
or use the Fancy Spit. But don't forget Raw Meat.
No Raw Meat, no Spit!  Anyway, if you don't understand anything,
check   Help   in the upper left
corner of the Touch Screen.  Miao, time to cook! Hei, Hunter. What's the matter?
You want to eat a meal? Ei? You have a dangerous hunt soon?
Wa... There's no need to put yourself in danger.
There's no shame in saying "no" so you can
live another day. If you must go, I'll cook something for
your safety. But I need high level
 ingredients  to make it.  I submitted a Quest with the Guild. I named it
"  Rathalos Renovation ."  Finish it and I'll level up the ingredients.
Now hurry! There is much to do.  Mi-hao, Hunter. You hear?
The Wyverian merchant man delivered
a wonderful gift for the kitchen! I named it the  Cook's Spit !
It's a very useful machine. It lets me help
when you use the Fancy Spit to cook.  Ask anytime! Your grill, miao grill.
But! You must pay Caravan Points,
miao-kay?  Hei, Hunter, look at the brand new kitchen!
So big! More high level ingredients!
All thanks to you, Hunter. Xie xie! ...But, you must still pay for your meals.  You surprise me, Hunter!  Your face is not so strong-looking,
but you finished the Caravaneer's
challenge like a piece of Heaven Bread! You're a true hunter, miao.
...But, you must still pay for your meals. Hei, Hunter, listen to this. I've got lots
of prime ingredients in stock now.
Again, this is thanks to you.  purr   And there's more: As a thank you for
the prime ingredients, I created   new
Skills  ! Now I have your attention, miao?  Hurry and eat lots of meals so you
can try all the new skills!  Oh. One more thing. This is the best news:
If you choose prime ingredients when you
order, you will get a shower of skills!  And as a bonus, you'll get a Stamina boost,
too.  purr  I am a culinary genius! Nyahaha!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC006 (Wycoon).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC006 (Wycoon).txt
SIZE: 24976 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:18:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 7496c8b32ffa8dd3091cd4e7dae72d3eb7d14bde5be2776fc7250a2686d4180d
================================================================================

﻿All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some strange new
wares for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some new items
today that should liven up the hunt.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some new hunting
necessities for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some new, rare
insects for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some unusual wares
in stock today. So long! May your pouch strings
never be tight. Fine work, Hunter! Now we can trade with
the  Moga Bee Yard . Of course, the merchant there also reaps
the benefits. We will keep him stocked
with all the goods he desires. Win-win! I am sure that if he were here right now,
he would say, "Zenny thanks!" Fine work, Hunter! Now the Open-air Kitchen
will always be stocked with the best
dairy delights.  The Street Cook said to tell you,
"Zenny thanks!" Fine work, Hunter! I hear Sunsnug Isle
has expanded.  The locals wanted to say, "Zenny thanks
for the new op-purr-tunities!"  On that note, "purr-haps" you should
pay them a visit.  Fine work, Hunter! Now the Open-air Kitchen
will always be stocked with the freshest
of fishes. The Street Cook said to tell you,
"Zenny thanks!" Fine work, Hunter! Now we can trade with
the  Dundorma Market . The merchant there was quite pleased. He sent a brief note to say,
"Zenny thanks!"  Fine work, Hunter! Now the Street Cook
can help you cook meat at the
Open-air Kitchen.  He said to tell you, "Zenny thanks!"  Fine work, Hunter! I hear Sunsnug Isle
has expanded.  The locals sent you a message: "Meow'd
you like to come by and see the new
risotto?"  Or was it "resort"? I am so terrible
with messages. You had better visit the
isle yourself and see. Hmm? Your Item Box is full, Hunter.
My precious gifts cannot be yours unless
you make space for them. All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some special new
wares for you today.  Fine work, Hunter! I hear Sunsnug Isle
has expanded.  The locals wanted to say, "Zenny thanks
for the new op-purr-tunities!"  On that note, "purr-haps" you should
pay Sunsnug Isle a visit.  Fine work, Hunter! The folks at the
Wyceum were able to advance
to the next stage of their research.  The Professor wanted to tell you,
"Zenny thanks in the name of science!"
Whee hee!  Oh, so you went on an Expedition?
Splendid, splendid! If you redeem the Account Items you
acquire on Expeditions, you will
earn   Caravan Points  . These Caravan Points can be spent at a wide
variety of establishments, including
my own.  Of course, all of this hinges upon
whether I am ever able to open shop.
 sigh  You see? I sigh at you.  Dear Hunter -- you beautiful hero, you!
I am saved! I thought for certain I would have to
abandon my business and strike out for
zennier pastures.  Once the trade routes have been restored,
I will join your Caravan! And then...
I can get my merch on again! Whee hee!  The Caravaneer's road may be long, but I
have a grand quest of my own.  You see, I wish to resurrect the long lost
art of "Melding."  Ages ago, my homeland ancestors were said
to be adept at Melding, but now it lives
on only in tales.  And so my search continues, and
probably will continue, as searches are
wont to do. "Zenny thanks," as my father used
to say. As if mere words could convey
my gratitude! No, I must repay you by joining the
Caravan and flexing my merchant muscles
on your behalf. Harth at last...
But that is strange. Why is everyone so
down in the dumps? Perhaps it was something they ate.  Let this be a lesson to you! You look
like the sort who would ingest the first
thing you picked up off the ground.  Hmm... Now we know why Harth is
so eerily quiet.  Are you going to hunt the
Tetsucabra, then? Nicely done! The villagers of Harth
are back to their usual antics. Have you spoken with the Chief?
Now would be a good time. Greetings! The cook was looking
for you. I think he wanted to ask
you a favor.  Ah! Good day, Hunter. Have you been
introduced to the Ace Hunters yet?  Year in and year out, the Ace Hunters
take on various missions for the Guild. Their leader for this mission is
remarkably young. Do you see him?
The cranky-looking one in blue armor.  Our Caravaneer and the Ace Hunter
with the Lance do seem to get along.
Do you think they are old acquaintances? Even the Ace Palico looks tickled pink
to see him.  Just so you know, Hunter, the
Harth Chief was looking for you.  Something about the village's lava
problem, and a monster clogging
the works. The Ace Hunters? Oh, they left by
ship not long ago.  Keep yourself alive and you might cross
paths with them again. Whee hee!  I have seen many a ship, but this one
takes the cake for sheer absurdity.
What is the blasted fish looking at?  ...Hmm, me? Yes, of course I helped
build it. I provided the moral support. My! That monster was a doozy, wasn't it?
Still in one piece?  I know we are, thanks entirely to you.
I could hardly care if the brine got to
a few of my wares. Many a caravan strikes out for Cheeko
Sands planning to collect on all the
rare commodities available nearby. But they never find the village.
Usually, the fools just stumble upon each
other and ask for directions. Whee hee!  Did you notice the shipwreck outside of
Cheeko Sands? A trade ship, I would wager. And one as old
as time, considering the state it was in. Ah, Hunter. I see the Wild Palico
pulled through. By the way, the Headwhiskress of
Sunsnug Isle wanted to see you.
She said she would wait. Oh, the Meownster Hunters have reached
their destination. They will be waiting
at Sunsnug Isle. Oh! The Cheeko Sands Chief was looking
for you. I believe she wanted to offer
her thanks. Did you speak with the Cheeko Sands Chief?
Quite a story! Who knew she once sailed a trade ship
with a crew of scurvy Felynes? Whee hee!  And then along comes a monster, and WHAM!
No more ship. ...Hits close to home,
this story does. The Little Miss at the Forge had a
splendid idea. As long as we are reaching for the sky,
she said, why not turn our ship into
an   airship ? Whee hee! As you can imagine, the Caravaneer fell
right in love with that idea. I still
think he is a merchant at heart.  Have you dropped by the Open-air Kitchen,
Hunter? The Street Cook has expanded --
thanks to you, I hear!  We ought to pass our thanks on to the
Cheeko Sands Chief as well. Did you see? The Caravaneer's bird came
with a letter. I wonder what it was about.  Have you asked him? He looked ready to
have a bird. ...I mean, another bird.
Besides the one that brought the letter. Fear not. I am certain they are all safe
and sound. Find the Gore Magala,
and you will find the missing hunters.  Still having doubts? Trust me, if you
head straight after the Gore Magala,
you will bump into the others. After all, that is precisely how you
extricated me from my little Kecha Wacha
problem, is it not? Tell me, Hunter, what do you make of the
Gore Magala? To me, it looks like a spoiled child
whining and flailing after someone took
away its favorite toy. The Street Cook and I were going to have
a little wager about whether you or the
monster would come back alive. But that fell apart because we both
insisted on betting on you. Whee hee! Off you go, now. Talk to the Harth Chief
so we can get our ship on the road.
...And by "on the road," I mean, "in the sky." I must say, I am impressed. It is a simple
enough matter to reach for the stars.  But at times, you and the Caravaneer seem
THIS close to actually touching them. You and he are not dreamers.
You are doers. ...He especially would make
a good merchant.  Bravo! Splendiferous! At last, we have
a grand ship to call our own.  ...Hmm, me? Yes, of course I helped
build it. I provided the moral support. My, what a view! Cathar's vistas
exceeded my every expectation! Did you see the Caravaneer? Not even
sandpaper would have wiped that smile from
his face as he went to gather information.  Get a bushel of this, Hunter!
I have finally found the lost art which
I seek, right here in Cathar! I can hardly believe the art of Melding
survives but with one child -- and the
fourteenth of his line, no less! I cannot wait to talk his ear off.
...Both his ears, at that! Two for the
price of one! Whee hee! Hmm? The Caravaneer is gone?
Of course he is gone. He hitched a ride
on the Guild's airship.  But do not look so surprised. Since when
was he the type to sit around and twiddle
his thumbs? Hee! Did you hear? The Caravaneer is back!
He was looking for you, as a matter of
the fact.  Not just anyone is allowed to set foot in
the Shrine in Cathar. You must really rate. What is there to worry about? You make
with the hunting, I make with the
multiplying of items.  Once you get back, I stuff your pouches
with Items. Happy faces for everyone!
...So be safe out there.  Cathar's tales of the Calamity
are as old and rusty as the gears of time. So why now? What thrust it back into
relevance? I feel as though that question
may be the most germane... Long time no sell. How have you been? ...Me? Oh, you know. A little wheeling
here, a little dealing there. I prefer to
expand my profits, not my horizons!  Well, the mystery of the Caravaneer's
Article has been solved and Cathar has
been saved.  What a grand adventure! I shall remember
it vividly -- and also make the cool
million once I write my memoir. Before I forget, I have a message for you
from my merchant peers. "Zenny, zenny thanks!" they said.
Whee hee! Get it? ...Get it?  Hang it all... What are we to do?
 Sigh   Ack! I sighed! Did you hear me sigh?
I never sigh! This is an ill omen. Salutations, Hunter! I do like hunters.
To a merchant such as myself, you are
a very valuable customer. Come back once the trade routes are open
again, and we can talk shop. ...My shop.
From which you will buy things. Merchants like myself rely on trade routes
to procure our wares. Sadly, the trade
routes are as stopped up as my arteries...  As usual, monster damage is to blame. While you are off hunting, I take my cart
to market and multiply your items.  ...How do I do it? Whee hee! A merchant
who gives up his secrets will not be a
merchant for very long.  When multiplying items, you can put in
several requests at once.  After all, who wants to bother with the
asking after every single hunt? Bah!  If you put in many requests with a
market, the market will grow and increase
its Circulation. High Circulation allows markets to handle
more requests in succession.  I will change the color of these markets'
flags to let you know where you stand.  Ah, about the Caravan Points you need
for my shop...  You can earn them by hunting monsters
on Expeditions or cashing in
Account Items. Get the point(s)? ...That was merchant
humor. Wheel and deal with it!
...That was also merchant humor.  Sometimes, when you multiply items,
you will receive a rare and wonderful
surprise along with the usual stuff.  Then again, you might receive something
useless, too. Such is life! Whee hee!
You must take the good with the bad.  Each market has sales from time to time.  That means I can make with the
transactions for fewer Caravan Points
than usual. Quite the smoking deal!  Hunter, have you ever heard of a
Cathangea Seed? To merchants like myself,
it is as precious as cold, hard zenny. Slipping me a Cathangea Seed when you
multiply your items, and I assure you the
gesture will not go unnoticed.  A fully grown Cathangea or Cathangea
Infusion would also do the trick.  My wares change daily depending on what
comes in from various parts of the world. I offer what ordinary shops cannot:
spontaneity! Remember to stop by after
every hunt.  By selecting "Trade Materials," you can
trade one monster's materials for that of
another.  And the more Quests you complete, the
broader the range of my contacts will
grow -- as will the materials they offer. Buy the buy, you DO know how to get your
hunterly hands on a Cathangea Seed,
do you not?  They can be collected on Expeditions.
Remember to make with the peeling of the
eyes and grab as many as you can!  The Caravaneer's tongue wags incessantly
when it comes to you, Hunter.  ...You want to know what he says? That
depends what it is worth to you. Whee h--
...Wait! Where are you going?! The Man at the Smithy does fine
work for a strapling of his age.  I am told both his father and his father's
father were also artisans by trade.  Hm? You want to know why I am so
interested in Melding? A fair question... Considering I deal in
multiplying items, perhaps I mean to
squash out the practice. Mwee hee!  ...I kid, I kid.  Off to hunt with friends? Give them my
zenniest wishes! Whee hee! Step right up, Hunter! Leave me your items
both superlative and superfluous! I will
have them multiplying before you know it. It is thanks to you that I am once again
making with the business.  The least I can do in return is flex
my merchant muscles here at the
 Wyporium  . The Wyporium provides all kinds
of handy services.  Naturally, I have a   daily selection of
items   available for purchase.  Additionally, I can   multiply the items  
in your possession if you are willing to
leave them with me. And I also  trade in materials  , so you
can get your huntery hands on monster
materials from the distant regions.  What is a hunt, after all, without a
smorgasbord of items to see you
through? You NEED me!  If you  leave items with me , I will
multiply them for you while you are away
on the hunt.  Remember this simple mantra: "Before you
huntorium, visit the Wyporium!"
Whee hee!  By the by, the Wyporium wheels and
deals in   Caravan Points  . So make sure
you save up before you stop by!  And that wraps up my sales pitch. To learn more, feast your peepers on
 Help  , located in the upper left of the
Touch Screen.  Oh! And as a token of good faith,
I would like to give you this.
Happy transacting! Why the glum expression, Hunter?  Just go after the Shagaru Magala and
do what you do best. After all, that is how the hunter rolls.
And speaking of rolling, the Caravan bet
on a winner with you. You have saved villagers -- no, entire
villages! What hunter could be prouder?  So go out there, and leave the item
multiplying to this hardly-humble
merchant. Take that monster down! I will be the business, and you will be
the business end, so to be speaking.
Whee hee!  Come, Hunter! Behold the eye-watering
spectacle that is the NEW Wyporium! Thanks to you, I have more carts with
which to conduct the wheeling and the
dealing. That means   more transactions ! ...Plus, I get this fluffy butt cushion.
Happy faces all around! Whee hee!  Come, Hunter! Behold the jam-packed
public menace that is the NEW Wyporium! Thanks to you, I have more carts with
which to conduct the wheeling and the
dealing. That means   more transactions ! ...Plus, I get this fancy tiled roof.
Happy faces all around! Whee hee! Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Pokke Farm's   Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! Make
with the happy faces!  Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Kokoto Farm's  Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! You may
start the dancing in the streets! Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Moga Bee Yard's  Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! Let
us celebrate good times -- come on! Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Dundorma Market's  Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! Lucky me!
Lucky all of us! Whee hee!  My, what a shock! And not just the
monster -- look where we washed up!
This is Cheeko Sands.  My fellow merchants and I call it the
"Village of Strays." And the name is not
the only funny thing about it. The only way to even get to Cheeko Sands
is by losing your way. But...what is that I smell? Opportunity?
Yes, I believe it is!  Once I gather all manner of Cheeko Sands
rarities, I will be trading up a storm!
Whee hee!  Of course, you will help me do it,
Hunter.  I filed a Quest called  " Oil Toil  "
with the Guild. If you bring me back some   Slagtoth Oil  ,
I will be able to take  one additional cart
when I go trading. May fortune smile upon us both! Ah! Hunter. I have a juicy proposition
for you. How would you like to   increase the number
of carts   I take when conducting trades
on your behalf?  ...Hee! I knew you would light up when I
told you! That is why I filed a Quest with
the Guild called "  Advanced: En Trade Route  ."  Complete it to secure safe passage, and I
will be able to add the extra cart
without putting anyone in danger.  Oh, and another thing.  I was considering   branching out  so you
can trade   new monster materials . However, a pernicious monster has decided
to occupy the supply route and throw a
wrench in my grand plan. Pah!  I filed a second Quest called
  " Uncorner the Market " with
the Guild. If you have time for one or both --
of course you do! -- then I guarantee we
both stand to reap the rewards. Whee hee!  Fine work you have been doing out there,
Hunter. I have been watching you every
step of the way. Whee hee!  You have inspired me to put in a little
extra effort. I got in touch with an
associate based far away.  He says he is willing to trade  new monster
materials  with us. However, a pernicious monster has decided
to ravage the supply route and throw a
wrench in our grand plan. Pah! I filed a Quest called
"  Advanced: Dragon's Din  " with
the Guild. Can you help? Together -- and by together, I mean you
doing the heavy lifting -- I know we can
get those new materials! Whee hee! Fine work you have been doing out there,
Hunter. I have been watching you every
step of the way. Whee hee!  You have inspired me to put in a little
extra effort. I got in touch with an
associate based far away.  He says he is willing to trade  new monster
materials  with us. However, a pernicious monster has decided
to heat up the supply route and throw a
wrench in our grand plan. Pah!  I filed a Quest called
"  Advanced: Tigrex Challenge  " with
the Guild. Can you help? Together -- and by together, I mean you
doing the heavy lifting -- I know we can
get those new materials! Whee hee! Fine work you have been doing out there,
Hunter. I have been watching you every
step of the way. Whee hee!  You have inspired me to put in a little
extra effort. I got in touch with an
associate based far away.  He says he is willing to trade  new monster
materials  with us. However, a pernicious monster has made it
too dangerous for the ferry to enter the
desert. So much for our grand plan. Pah! I filed a Quest called
"  Advanced: Shipping Out  " with
the Guild. Can you help? Together -- and by together, I mean you
doing the heavy lifting -- I know we can
get those new materials! Whee hee! Hunter? ...A moment, if you will. Have you any interest in multiplying your
items at a  new market  ? The one I have in mind is called the
 Moga Bee Yard . It is a vibrant establishment where one
can obtain honey and insects. If you can furnish a few things, I will be
able to secure a deal with this market
so I can multiply Items there.  Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the sweet details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Splendid timing!  The Street Cook asked me if I could
help him  get his hands on higher
quality milk  . However, I need to gather just a few small
things before I can make his dairy dreams
come true. Think you can help out? Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the delicious details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Headwhiskress at Sunsnug Isle just
contacted me about   expanding the island  . A larger Sunsnug Isle means you can
hire more Palicoes -- up to 30! Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the hairy details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Splendid timing!  The Street Cook asked me if I could
help him  get his hands on higher
quality fish  . However, I need to gather just a few small
things before I can make his fishy dreams
come true. This is where you come in.  Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the details.
I am counting on you! Hunter? ...A moment, if you will. Have you any interest in multiplying your
items at a  new market  ? The one I have in mind is called
 Dundorma Market . They satisfy a hunter's core needs with a
wide supply of useful tools.  If you can furnish a few things, I will be
able to secure a deal with this market
so I can multiply Items there.  Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Splendid timing!
The Street Cook asked me a favor.  He wants to be able to join you when you
cook meat at the Street Kitchen. If you gather a few small things for me,
I can make him a   special little
spit of his very own . Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the juicy details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Headwhiskress at Sunsnug Isle just
contacted me about   further expanding
the island  . An even larger Sunsnug Isle means you
can hire more Palicoes -- up to 40! Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the hairy details.
I am counting on you! Marvelous work, Hunter! I hear you have
completed all of the Caravaneer's most
trying of trials.  If anyone doubted your ability before,
they are certainly dining on the crow now.
Whee hee! My hat goes off to you. Or perhaps I
should simply say, "Con-cash-ulations!"
Whee hee! ...Merchant humor. Fine work, Hunter! Now I can sell   Nectars !
Oh, and you can get them
from Dundorma Market too.  If you can't trade with
Dundorma Market yet,
check the Villager Requests! By the way, the Dundorma merchant
was quite pleased with his recent acquisition. He sent a brief note to say,
"Zenny thanks!" Whee hee!  Fine work, Hunter! Now you will have
access to new wares when you "Trade
Materials."  My colleagues are pleased with the
arrangement as well. They get what they
want, you get what you want... Happy faces all around! Whee hee!
Zenny thanks, zenny thanks. Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Headwhiskress at Sunsnug Isle just
contacted me about   further expanding
the island  . An even larger Sunsnug Isle means you
can hire more Palicoes -- up to 50! Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the hairy details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Professor at the Wyceum just
contacted me about some  research
materials   he requires. With said materials, he will be able to
increase the Wystones' effects! Check the Villager Requests to see
all of the details. I am counting on you!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC007 (Little Miss Forge).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC007 (Little Miss Forge).txt
SIZE: 15842 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:19:20
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 8bce04aabfd8e6136f426268decdf1ad1492fa6102ae1e2a68d575b0223d6171
================================================================================

﻿...Listen, sir. If you want my present,
you're gonna have to clean out your
Item Box. 'Kay? Oh no! The village is in trouble!
We have to do something.  Boohoo! Go see what my pop has to say.  ...What? No, I'm not crying.
"Boohoo" is my angry noise!  Boy, I'm sure glad you're here, sir.  I was about ready to go buy a towel
just so I could throw it in!  Pop and the diggers are gonna feel like a
million zenny once the Tetsucabra
is gone and we can mine again.  What's that, sir? You're here to build
a ship?  Sorry, but you won't get very far with
Pop and the diggers zonked out like this.  How could this happen? Why was I not
given monster-crushing arms? WHY, GODS!
Boohoo!  Yay! Everybody's back to normal!
Thanks, sir. You're the bestest. Hey, sir! Mind if I help out with
the thing?  You know, the THING! Your ship!
I'm not taking no for an answer!  ...Unless you glare at me like that,
in which case I'll just do it when
you're not looking. So where are you gonna go once you've
finished the ship? Across the sea?
Are you SERIOUS? I love the sea! It's got Sharqs and
seaweed and you can totally drown!
How adventurous is THAT? You know, sir, I just want to get out of
this village and see the world for once.
But Pop says, "Nooo! Go to your room!"  I am sooo going to run away when he's
not looking and create drama. The Article the Caravaneer's always
carting around sure is a sight to behold. I'll tell ya, sir. A mystery like that
would have me scouring the world, too.
I don't blame him one bit!  Can you believe it, sir? That lady
gunner and her minions came all the way
to our village for a special mission!  I might've gone a little overboard with
the Decorations when she asked me to
gear her up. Decorations are my hobby! I can't wait to tinker with that blue
armor her constipated minion is wearing.  Don't worry, sir! The ship design is
coming right along.  I love ships -- especially when I'm
secretly plotting to sneak aboard them! The Man at the Smithy agreed to
let me help with the ship design.
I mean, how great is that?  Did you know he's a Wyverian? Seriously,
did you see his ears?  That's not racist, because all Wyverians
are super good at making stuff. They know
way more than Pop or the diggers!  Guess what, sir! We figured out why the
volcano isn't doing its lava thing. The Ace Hunters took off for
their mission. Jealous! I wish I could've
tinkered with their armor more.  But they'll be back, right? Right, sir?
That lady gunner is my new best friend.
...I didn't have an old best friend.  Okay, I'll get cracking on the ship as
soon as the lava's back to normal.
Ooh, I can hardly contain my excitement!  ...Well, don't just stand there! Go hunt
that Nerscylla!  Don't worry, the ship design is moving
right along! Trust me, it's gonna blow
your socks off. Are you wearing socks? Whatever.  Even The Man at the Smithy was
totally impressed! Yay! We did it!
Booyakawakalakachowow!  That was my excited noise, because I
seriously cannot WAIT to get out there and
see the world with you! I'm gonna be the best smith in the whole
world! I bet they'll call me "Little Miss
Smith" or something! ...Is that boring?  Whew, was that terrifying! I thought my
heart was gonna fly right out my chest!
Thumpa-zhwoom!  So when do we leave again? If at first
you don't succeed... Oh! Need any forge work or Decorations? Are you okay, sir? How's your pancreas?
Your funny bone? ...Are you sure?!  When you fell into the sea trying to
protect us, I thought I would...
I thought I would... Boohoohoo! ...What? I'm not crying!
"Boohoo" is my angry noise!  Boy, sir, I sure am glad the Wild Palico
is okay!  sigh  ...You feel that sigh
of relief? How's my breath?  Oh! Anyway, the Headwhiskress was
looking for you. Maybe you should pay
Sunsnug Isle a visit. Sir, I totally racked my brain and--
...Are you ready for this? It's gonna
blow your face off. Okay, okay.  If we can't get up the mountain to
Cathar by boat, then what if
we FLEW there?  I mean, like, all we have to do is
convert our ship into an   airship , right?
How hard can that be?  ...Okay, pretty hard, but Pop'll whip up
plans in no time flat. Trust me on this! Did I mention sir? I spent yesterday
afternoon with the Cheeko Sands Chief.
She told me all kinds of great stories! Like how she used to sail the world on
a ship, and her hubby was a great
hunter, and then they got lost at sea... It never really hit me just how big the
world really is.  Sir, is it just me, or is the kitchen
WAAAY huger than before?  Go look! If you haven't seen it, then
seriously, go! Oh, and we need to go
thank the Cheeko Sands Chief, too! A letter came by bird for the Caravaneer.
By BIRD, sir!!  If I was a bird, I would just eat the
letter, so clearly this is a smart bird.  The lady gunner got hurt!
Boohoo! "Boohoo" is my angry noise. I'm gonna go
kick something in the shin!  Brace yourself, sir! I'm gonna decorate
you so hard, the Gore Magala will
pass out just by looking at you!  I thought there were only like, five
kinds of monster, but there are WAY more
than that. This journey is so educational!  Yahoo! We can start building again!
It's airship time, sir! Let's go have a word with my pop.
...C'mon, c'mon!  C'mon, sir! Don't you want to ask my pop
about the airship? Of course you do. The Arluq was always destined to fly! Guess what, sir! Teach is letting me
handle ship design again. I want to make
a bold ship --  a ship that cuts through the endless
clouds like it owns them. My ship'll get
us to Cathar lickety-split! We did it, sir! The Arluq is ready to
take to the skies! Yours truly has given
her wings! I feel like that guy in the story whose
kid flies into the sun. ...What?
Oh, don't worry. I didn't use wax. Can you believe it, sir?
We're off to Cathar! I'm finally gonna get to see where all
the Wyverians live. This is like a
dream come true!  Holy nimbus bobimbus, sir!
We're totally really ACTUALLY in THE
one and only Cathar!  Am I dreaming? Pinch me. Throw me off
the mountain! ...Wait, don't do that. Oh! Look at all these interesting people!
Come at me, Wyverians! LET ME DRINK
YOUR KNOWLEDGE. Ooh! Sir, did you hear? The Wyverians
have passed down this super secret
tradition known as "Melding."  That little Wyverian over there is the
14th in a long line of Melders!  Can you believe it? I was so excited I
had him sign my arm. What a view from the airship, huh, sir?
The world is so huge when you're floating
miles above it! Huh? What's wrong? ...You mean you've dug
up some info about the Caravaneer's Article?  Help! Sir! Aaah! Did you hear?
The Caravaneer has gone missing! Where did he go?! He didn't even
say good-bye. Boohoo!  "Boohoo" is my angry noise, but I'm a
little sad, too.  Sir, guess what! The Caravaneer is back!
Nnngah!  ...What?
No! "Nnngah" is my happy noise!  Sir, is it true you've been invited to the
Shrine to talk to the great
Grand Guru?  That is a-MAY-zing. Most people can't go
anywhere near the Shrine because
it's such a super-duper special place.  All the old folks in Cathar have
been so good to me. I have to do my part
to pay them back! Never fear! The children of Cathar
have been taken someplace safe.  Naturally, I don't count as a child.  How are you, sir? Good? Me too!
I am super good!  It sure is fun to be traveling together
again. Want me to break out the
Decorations?  Me and Pop got together to make some
equipment. We haven't done that in, gosh,
forever I think? And then Pop was all like, "Boohoo!"
...What? No, it's not his angry noise.
He had tears in his eyes, DUH!  I talked my pop's ear off the other day,
about Cathar and the
Shagaru Magala... I mentioned the Article the Caravaneer
carries around too. Pop just sort of
blinked and nodded and said nothing.  So, have you noticed that some equipment
has holes in it called Slots? That's where
you stick my Decorations, sir.  Decorations let you fine-tune your Skill
Points however you like. And I'm the best decorator this side of...
Uh, that place that isn't here.  Sometimes Fire attacks cause you to
catch fire. (A little rocket science
right there.) That's called Fireblight.  While you're burning and screaming your
poor lungs out, your Health will gradually
decrease. Evade to put the fire out! Sometimes Thunder attacks send shocks
through your body. The condition is known
as Thunderblight. While blighted, you'll be much easier to
Stun, so watch out.  Water attacks sometimes impair your
breathing. That's called Waterblight! Your Stamina will recover more slowly
while you try to catch your breath. Ice attacks may cause your body temp to
plummet. This is known as Iceblight.  When you're that cold, your Stamina will
drain faster than an inflated Zamtrios!  Dragon attacks sometimes cancel out your
weapon's Element. That's called
Dragonblight, sir. Until you recover, you lose any
elemental bonus you might have had.
Freaky stuff! A cute little Felyne from Cheeko Sands
asked me to make her a Decoration that
nullifies Poison. All the poison swamps are ruining her
night walks in the Primal Forest.
...But where will she wear the Decoration?  Sir, I want to become the bestest
artisan ever and bring Harth
technology to the whole world. With that much work to do, Pop and the
diggers will never get all slumpy again.
Right? Right? Ma was an artisan to beat all artisans!
Pop wants me to turn out like her,
I think. So it's hard to believe a hammer she
made could suddenly be busted... Boohoo! Pop guarded that hammer with his life.  Whenever bad stuff happened and we didn't
know what to do, he would point to it and
say, "The hammer will pound us the way."  Sir! The diggers went and dug up a
Teostra lair!  I guess they got a little carried away
when they thought they hit paydirt...
That got them scampering home quick! How come the diggers keep digging up
monster lairs? Huh?  Ooh! Maybe that's their secret power.
I should report this to the Guild, sir! Then they can study it...and stuff.
Yeah... Thanks, sir! The diggers went off to the
mines looking pretty gung-ho.  Maybe I can make Pop that new hammer
as a present now.  Anyway, these things take time, so why
not take this opportunity to make
yourself an even better hunter?  Oh! Sir, did you know the seats in the
Gathering Hall are magical?  If you sit in them, you can eat and drink
and sing and pass out...  And then you wake up with someone else's
armor on! Presto awkwardo! Oh no! The village is in trouble!
What am I gonna do? Pop and the diggers have stopped moving.
Like, they won't even budge! Are you a hunter, sir? ...Can I call you
"sir"? ...You say you've already talked
to Pop? Thanks!  I don't know what happened. It's been
like this for a while now.  The Troverians of Harth have
been renowned for their weapons and armor
since ancient times. But ever since that   Tetsucabra  
took up residence in the Sunken Hollow,
they've been acting super-duper funny. They've totally stopped mining. We have
zero materials, sir! Work has stopped!
The diggers have flopped!  I feel like the only one left with any
motivation.  But now you've come along, sir. This must
be destiny! The winds of fortune! Fwoosh! Do the village a big ol' favor and drive
that stupid Tetsucabra away so Pop
and the diggers will go back to normal. I can't stand seeing them like this...
slowly becoming part of the woodwork...
Boohoo!  ...What? No, I'm not crying.
"Boohoo" is my angry noise!  Yippee! Pop and the diggers are all back
to their normal workaholic selves! You're the bestest, sir. I really mean it!
I could kiss you -- on the cheek!  Here, I want you to have this. It's an
Aquaglow Jewel. You need it to make
 Decorations ! Have you ever heard of  Skill Points  , sir?  When you equip armor, you might notice
each piece is assigned values called
Skill Points. Super handy hunting   Skills   will activate
if the total Skill Points from all your
armor reaches a high enough number.  Some increase the power of your weapon,
while others increase Stamina, and still
others negate conditions like Poison...  Anyway, trust me, they're totally
worth it! Now this is where Decorations come in.
Decorations let you tweak Skill Points
the way you like! You'll notice your equipment has  Slots
for sticking the Decorations in. If you're ever like, "Dang! I am so close
to having that Skill!" or...  "Dang! I so don't want that Skill to
activate!" then add a Decoration to push
the numbers whichever way you like. And guess what? I'm a Decoration
specialist! It's like my hobby! So come
at me, sir, and watch me deck you out! Let me at 'em, sir! Give me your equipment
so I can decorate the living heck out
of it! You can't stop me! It's gonna be a
Decorocalypse! I'm gonna... I'm gonna...  Boohoooooo!  Oh, it's no use... Pop always said you
can't do good work when you're a bottle of
emotions. And I'm a six-pack! I want to be useful, though. You know?
I can't take on the Shagaru Magala or
save Cathar on my own... ...But I can still help you! I have to!
Focus, girl! It's time to do my part! Sir, you won't believe this!
Pop zonked out again!  The second he saw Ma's hammer break,
he went down for the count. Boohoo!  To be honest, I don't get how anything Ma
made could possibly break, least of all
that hammer. I'm feeling banged up, too.  But I can fix this. I'll make Pop a new
hammer even better than the old one!  It'll be so strong that it'll smash right
through the anvil! ...No, wait, that's
too strong. I'll figure it out!  In the meantime, can you solve a little
problem for me? The diggers were on their way to get
materials when then they ran into a
 Tetsucabra  . Surprise! They hightailed it home faster than you
can say "lasting trauma." ...Well, almost
that fast.  Anyway, can you drive off that
Tetsucabra menace for me? I filed a
Quest called   " Hammer It Out ."  I can't stand seeing the diggers like
this... Whining their lives away...
Boohoo! Thanks, sir! I wish I could say the
diggers are off on their merry way, BUT!  They were so excited to be digging again
that they dug up a   Gravios  by
mistake. Oops!  Once again, they hightailed it home.  Sir, can you drive off the Gravios
before someone gets hurt?  I filed a Quest called  " Hammer It Home  ."  Please... I can't stand seeing the
diggers like this... Sobbing digger tears
into their digger pillows... Boohoo! Thanks, sir. The diggers went off to
the mines with shoulders high, and boy
did they look happy...  Until they dug up a   Teostra  lair
by mistake. Geez, guys! I guess they got a little carried away
when they thought they hit paydirt...
They sure came home in a hurry!  Please, sir! You've got to help us get
rid of that Teostra. I filed a
Quest called  " Advanced: Deep Trouble  ."  I would say, "I can't stand to see the
diggers like this," but none of us will
be standing if we don't hurry. Ugh...  Thank you SO much, sir! You showed that
Teostra the door, and how!  The diggers did backflips when they heard.
They ran right back to the mines, got the
materials I need, and... Tada! I finally made Pop a new hammer!  Pop always wears his heart on his sleeve.
He was so happy, he started shedding
these manly man-tears... He said "You did it. You finally outdid
Ma." Then  I  broke into man-tears.
I mean, shucks! It sure felt nice to get his seal of
approval. Even if it was kind of
snivelly. Heh heh.  So thanks again, sir!
Take this   gift for Pop  .
You deserve it! Sir! Wow... Way. To. Go!
How amazing are YOU? Don't play dumb. I heard you finished all
of the Caravaneer's crazy challenges! I'll never complain again when Teach
comes at ME with HIS challenges. If you
can prevail, so can I!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC008 (Poogie).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC008 (Poogie).txt
SIZE: 136 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:21:42
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 84b82870126eef0c4dd4b6b6796a822d8c2de7cadda28ceb509822cac162437a
================================================================================

﻿*Grunt?* *Grunt snort?* *Squeal?* *Su-suey?* *Oink?* *Snort! Su-su-suey!*
*Snort grunt* *Su-su-suey!* *Oink oink* *Snort* *Grunt burp*



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC009 (Housekeeper Felyne).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC009 (Housekeeper Felyne).txt
SIZE: 3045 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:22:20
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: dd29c05004202dcba774aaf3207e230ee003ea7e93c93b30851e20cf65cf4ee0
================================================================================

﻿Now then, how can I help you, nya?  

Remember, I'm only a meow away. 

Meowster, a certain Palico wished for
you to have this. Consider it a token of
Felyne apurr-eciation, nya.  

...Oh. Many purrdons, but I can't give
you the gift unless you make space in
your Item Box first, meow. 

Meowster, remember to Save by sleeping in
the bed before you quit the game, nya?
Otherwise you'll be sorry, meow! 

If you like, you can use the Item Box
to purrform tweaks to your hairstyle,
face paint, and so on, nya. 

Remember, Meowster, there's no shame in
stowing things in the Item Box if you
won't be using them on the hunt, nya. Your Pouch can only hold so meowch! 

To change your equipment, just use the
Item Box, nya. You can also easily change your Talismans
and Decorations, meow.  

Meowster, once you start to amass more
armor, you may want to start creating
Equipment Sets, meow.  Equipment Sets keep track of your favorite
attire, from head to toe, so you can
easily change back into it later, nya.  

They say the world is full of Poogie
costumes, meow.  If you run into a wild Poogie while out
on the hunt, don't forget to "borrow"
its clothes, nya? 

I'm glad you found friends to hunt with,
meowster! "Teamwork" is one of my favorite
words. It even has "meow" in it! Um, sort of. 

Salutations, Meowster. May I call you
"Meowster"? I am the  Housekeeper  in your
Caravan's employ, nya. Just say the word, and I'll be there
at your beck and call!
I purrvide many services! Want to watch that movie or cutscene
again? Allow me to show you to the
  Gallery , nya.  Hungry for more Quests? Seeking unique
Palicoes, meow? Connect to the Internet for
 downloadable content  . So you see, meowster, if you're looking
for a little sugar and spice in your
hunting life, then I'm your Felyne, nya! I do need to run through two very
im-purr-tant points with you, so clean the
wax out of your ears, meow.  One! Before quitting the game, remember
to use the  bed  to Save, meow. Two! When you return from a hunt, I highly
recommend you use the  Item Box   to organize
your items, meow.  Remember these two simple rules of paw,
and you'll be one happy hunter, nya.  

Meowster, the Meownster Hunters have
made it to Sunsnug Isle, meow. To commemorate the occasion, I took it
upon myself to make a little arrangement,
meow.  From now on, you can collect Meownster
Hunter rewards   directly from me  , nya.  You don't have to go all the way to
Sunsnug Isle if you don't want to.
Convenient, nya? If you're curious about the Meownster
Hunters, please speak with the  Headwhiskress
at Sunsnug Isle, meow. 

Meowster, I hear you finished the
Caravaneer's Challenge. My most
hearty congratulations, nya!  You are truly most absolutely CERTAINLY
the most truly great spectacular
hunter -- if I may skimp on words, meow. 

Meowster, I hear you finished
The Master's Test! My most
hearty congratulations, nya!  You are really, most absolutely, DEFINITELY
the most great magnificent legendary
hunter -- if I may skimp on words, meow.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC010 (Courier Felyne).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC010 (Courier Felyne).txt
SIZE: 4389 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:22:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 15fb9b92c5a17d0ac2023e558652bac6256bf1ebb20f0f7eca8fb6f5757e346c
================================================================================

﻿The pawstal business is tough work. Tired? Not me. I just took a nyap.  We'll help you meowke new friends!  Wanna see your cards? I love StreetPaws! ...I mean StreetPass.  Come to us for all your pawstal needs.  Happy hunting, Hunter.  Hope to have more meowl soon! It feels like ya just got here... How come nobody sends me any meowl? Hunter! Take this gift as a token of
my apurr-eciation. Thanks for using
the Courier Service, nya!  It's my job to deliver Guild Cards to
hunters the world over, nya.  The Courier Service is important, nya?
It's beclaws it brings hunters together! I'll just drop these Guild Cards in
yer Guild Card Inbox, nya?  Greetings and meow-utations, Hunter.
Nice weather we're having, nya?  Lazy days like today make me want to
hit the Felvine... Kut-ku power, nya!  Looks like I've got some Guild Cards
here for nya, Hunter.  Care to take a peek inside the ol'
meowlbag, Hunter?  Looks like I snagged a special delivery
with your nyame on it, Hunter.  Got some exciting nyews for ya today,
Hunter! You've got meowl! You've got more meowl than a Felyne
has lives, Hunter.  Meow goodness! You've got a lot of
Guild Cards here today, Hunter!  It's simply purrposterous how much meowl
you've got, Hunter!  Hunter, this bag is so heavy I can
barely meowve it!  You seem popular, Hunter. Just look at
all the Guild Cards you're receiving!  Sorry, Hunter, but the Courier Service
is on paws right now.
Safe hunting!  Howdy, Hunter! Sweet to meetcha!  Meowlmen like me run the Courier Service.
We link up hunters from all aclaws
the land. It's a very impawtant job, nya!  There's tons of caravans out there, and
different hunters opurrate out'a each and
every one of 'em. That's where the Courier Service comes in!
By using   StreetPass  , you can swap
 Guild Cards  with purrfect strangers! Guild Cards are like calling cards --
use them to tell others all about
your hunting track record.  Just  register   your StreetPass data, and
I'll start deliverin' your Guild Card to
other hunters' caravans. Sweet deal, nya? Oh, and when Guild Cards arrive from
other hunters, I'll purrlace 'em in that
Guild Card Box for safekeeping. Collect enough of them and lots of good
things are bound to happen. Trust me when
I say it's fur-filling! If you want to know more, have a look at
 Help   in the upper left corner of
the Touch Screen.  So? Whaddaya say? You wanna activate
StreetPaws-- Er, StreetPass for Monster Hunter 4
Ultimate on your Nintendo 3DS system? Congrats on adding Palicoes to your team!
They make great purrtners, don't they?
Now, I have some important news, nya!  If ya use my Courier Service to activate
StreetPass, you can  purrvide
Palicoes  to the hunters you encounter.  Let me run ya through the steps, nya.
First, activate StreetPass for use
with this game.  Next, select  Palicoes   from   StreetPass
settings  and choose the Palico you want
to send to other hunters. That's all there is to it, nya! You can
send yer Palico to as many hunters as
ya like.  I'll purrsonally look after the Palicoes
THEY send to YOU. You can check in on them
using the   Palico Box  . Select the Palico you want to hire from
the Palico Box, and that's it! You don't
have to send a Palico to receive one.  Meowvelous, am I right? May yer Palicoes
be many and yer hunts fruitatious, meow! Congrats on getting cleared for Guild
Quests! I knew you were a purr-o. Now that you're Guild Quest-eligible,
I have some important news, nya!  If ya use my Courier Service to activate
StreetPass, you can  send
Guild Quests  to other players.  Let me run ya through the steps, nya.
First, activate StreetPass for use with
this game.  Next, select  Quests   from   StreetPass
settings  and choose the Guild Quest you
want to send to other hunters.  That's all there is to it, nya! You can
send yer Guild Quest to as many hunters
as you like.  Just keep in mind that when you
share a Guild Quest, its level
will be reset to its original value, nya.  I'll purrsonally manage the Guild Quests
THEY send to YOU. You can check in on them
using the   Quest Box . Since you can only keep up to 10, be sure
to select the Guild Quests you want to
keep from the Quest Box. You can't play a Guild Quest unless you
choose to keep it first.  Got it? Good, nya.
May yer Guild Quests be abundant and yer
hunts fruitatious, meow!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC011 (Val Habar Merchant).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC011 (Val Habar Merchant).txt
SIZE: 6030 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:23:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a861f132c94bf8ad92d8ccded2ed02daa865a9a44228e928d8c9f60960bc66de
================================================================================

﻿Come and have a gander! See you real soon.  Step right up! Half price today!  Can you believe all this nonsense?
Why's everyone all in a huff over some
huggable little monkey monster? As long as he doesn't blow snot all over
my goods, I say live and let live. What's that? It's not plain ol' snot? Ha!
Mucus, slime, boogies -- whatever.
You say tomayto, I say tomotto, honey! Hot dang! Whatever you did, it worked!
Urgent Quest, you say? Well, whatever it
was, I'm so happy I could cry.  Who lit the Guild's britches on fire?
I can't remember the last time I've seen
them this agitated.  If you don't mind me askin', what's
got the Guild all riled up? I sure hope
it's not bad news.  After that business with the
Dah'ren Mohran, I really don't want to
hear something worse is on the way. The moment you run out of Whetstones is
the moment your weapon runs out of steam,
so make sure you buy in quantity! Is there any hunting item more essential
than a Potion? Just combine an Herb and a
Blue Mushroom. Basics, hon!  Got a Pickaxe? How about a Bug Net?
Those are the two must-haves if you
plan on doing any gathering.  Pickaxes and Bug Nets run the gamut from
"Old" to "Mega." The higher the quality,
the longer before the item breaks.  Have you got yourself a BBQ Spit?
Hunters like you run on food, and with a
spit you can grill up any old Raw Meat!  If you combine the First-aid Med you get
as a Supply Item with Honey, you can whip
yourself up a First-aid Med+. Ooh, baby! Combine a Potion with Honey and you have
yourself a Mega Potion. And what hunter
doesn't love the word Mega? Mega! Mega!  Hit large monsters with Paintballs to
track them by scent. It's a paint-or-
faint world out there!  Goin' fishing? Hon, what you need is a
Mega Fishing Fly. Combine different
items to whip up a whole slew of lures!  Everybody's head over heels about Flash
Bombs, but the darned things hurt my eyes
as much as the monsters'... Can I help you find anything in
particular, hon? Just sayin'. Val Habar draws all kinds of caravans,
and my shop draws hunters lookin' for
this, that, and the other thing. You say you had a hard time finding
Val Habar? No surprise there!
We move faster than the mapmakers draw. But the Guild folks at the Gathering Hall
tell me we'll be settled here for a spell.  That Gathering Hall over yonder is a
hub for every caravan west of the what's-
it-called. The hunters come for supplies, and we
come for their business. The town's busier
than a blouse full of Flashbugs, heh!  It's that time of year again! A chance
for hunters like you to strut their stuff
and go for the glory, heh heh! I hope we see some new contenders this
time around. I love to cheer for the
rising stars! Huh? Is this your first time at the
festival? No kidding. Whenever this season rolls around, the
town floods with able hunters looking for
their shot at a certain monster. And, of course, the Guild is ready with a
whole slew of super-challenging Quests to
knock their hunter panties off. Let me tell you, Val Habar doesn't get
more exciting than festival time, hon!
I can smell it in the air!  Which hunter will take home the honors
this year? It's the talk of the town, and
no surprise. Personally, I'm rooting for the one right
in front of me.  wink  You look ready to
slay monsters just with your expression! Taking your friends out for a hunt?
Be a pal and buy plenty of items for
everyone! You do know you can share? Step right up, step right up!
...You there! You're new to Val Habar,
aren't you?  You see that big, beautiful ship
back there? That's the   Gathering Hall  .
I never get tired of lookin' at it. Merchants like me never plant our feet
in one place too long. We drift along
wherever the Gathering Hall takes us.  If the Hall moves, then so does
Val Habar. We're like a caravan
of caravans! A hunter's paradise! And speaking of paradise, have I got a
hot selection of items for you. Stop by
before every Quest!  You never know when I'll get new
stock in... Heck, even I don't know!
The world is full of possibility, hon!   Sigh  What a letdown... The hunter on the
flyer was a real looker, with eyebrows
thick enough to beat a monster with.  And now they're telling me it's supposed
to be a picture of YOU? No offense, but
you just don't fit the bill. Well, at least you're easy to talk to.
I can get right to the point!  I need a hunter to deliver some fresh
  Sushifish . A boat from my sis's Hunting Fleet is in
harbor. Sis is the Fishmongress in a tiny
village called Moga. Unfortunately, a string of storms has
affected their catch, so she's sent her
men here to get more Sushifish. Whoever's asking for them must be a big
bully, because the captain is just about
in tears over the whole thing. Anyway, I filed a Quest with the Guild:
  " Sushifish SOS ."
Thanks for the help! Way to pull through on the Sushifish!
I really do appreciate it.  You should have been here to see the
captain crack a big smile, his tear-
stained face still glistening in the sun. I hope he goes back to the big bully in
Moga that sent him on this wild Baggi
chase and socks him one! Hmph.  Anyway, I'll tell my friends in other
villages you're a hunter that knows how
to deliver. Maybe you'll get more work! Or better yet, why not give up hunting
and switch to fishing? You may not have
the eyebrows, but you've got the talent! Hey, you! I saw the latest edition with
your buff bod plastered all over the
front page. You celebrity, you!  I can't believe you pulled it off.
That's the kind of skill eyes like mine
don't get to see too often.  It's so amazing, I just want to...
 sniff  I think I've got a Bitterbug in
my eye.  sniff   Hey, you! I hear you burned right through
that vicious Quest. Might be that YOU'RE
the real monster. Heh heh! Sis wrote me from Moga Village to tell me
all about you. Can you believe it?  They're talkin' about you on the OTHER
SIDE of the ocean!  sniff  My little
hunter, all grown up...



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC012 (Val Habar Armory).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC012 (Val Habar Armory).txt
SIZE: 5761 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:25:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 9accc9c1c290fff1b6dbdacb365f6b7ace561ebdafe5187da891ba8cf20db400
================================================================================

﻿Anyway... BAM! Suit up, Huntah!!  See you again real soon. Meh heh. Urgent Quest time, I hear.
Make sure you're prepped to the max...
with my goods, of course. Meh heh.  So, you're heading to Harth?
I hear the smithies there know some wacky
forge-fu. Sounds like fun! Meh heh.  What is up with the Guild? They sure are
making a lot of noise over there.  Good thing I'm more interested in
profit than current events! Ka-ching! Oh, hello, Huntah. ...Is something
the matter?  I only ask because the Guild people
are running around like maniacs.
...You know, just saying.  The Great Sword is all about sheer power.
Nothing delivers the hurt like charging
one up fully before bringing it down. The Long Sword's slender, graceful edge
is most mesmerizing when you use the
Spirit Gauge for a Spirit Blade attack.  Use the Sword & Shield for a balance
between offense, defense, and mobility.
It's perfect to those new to hunting.  The Dual Blades stand out for their
fast hits and high mobility. Dance left, then
right, then slash to your heart's content.  Hammer wielders are a lot more agile on
their feet than you might think. You can
even use a Hammer to Stun monsters.  The Hunting Horn is a winner. By combining
notes into performances, you can power
yourself up, as well as friends.  The Lance's major draw has to be its
outstanding defense. You can block attacks
and then swiftly counter. Way too cool! The Gunlance does offense AND defense.
Block with the shield, open fire in close
quarters, or hit hard with Wyvern's Fire.  The Switch Axe morphs between hard-hitting
axe and fast-hitting sword forms. You'll
have to learn to handle both. Interested in the Charge Blade? It takes
skill to know when to block in sword form
and when to hit hard in axe form.  The Kinsects released by the Insect Glaive
collect monster essences that empower you.
The Glaive itself dispatches swift blows. Choose the Light Bowgun for Rapid Fire.
One round hits three times, and the weapon
boasts great mobility. Choose the Heavy Bowgun if you're after
awesome firepower. It also lets you use
Crouching Fire. ...Aw, yeah.  The Bow lets you fire away at a distance
without stressing about ammo. You can
apply coatings to inflict various ailments.  Oh, hello there. Are you jumping in on
the festivities too? Hunters from around the world gather in
Val Habar this time of year to take a
crack at some very special monsters.  I wonder if any hunters will take top
honors this year. It's go-for-the-glory time! Wowee,
the village is on fire! ...Not literally.
...Not YET literally.  This is the craziest time of the year to
be in Val Habar, let me tell ya. Are you in the running, Huntah?
I bet you are, aren't you? AREN'T YOU?
Meh heh heh. I wonder which hunters will stand out
this time around. See any front runners?  I kind of want the winners to be
wearing my equipment. Product placement
and all that.  Oh, off to the Gathering Hall?
Feel free to recommend my goods to your
friends. I'm not shy! Meh heh. BAM! Suit up, Huntah!!  ...Ah, sorry. I tend to shout that
whenever I see a customer. Meh heh.  I sell a variety of weapons and armor.
I'm your defense depot. Your offense...
um, offorium.  You need materials to use the Smithy,
but I let ya buy what you need with
good, old-fashioned cashola.  BAM! Money talk, Huntah!! ...Ah, sorry. Did it again, didn't I?
Meh heh.  Anyway, I suppose my shop doesn't need
a lot of explaining, does it?
Go ahead and take a look around. Psst! Hey, you there.
You're in on the yolk, ain'tcha?  Nyeh heh heh. I knew it!
You can't pull the omelet over me, kid.  What? Don't look so scandalized-like.
This here is how I really talk --
who I REALLY am.  Now let's see if you can handle a little
job I gots for ya, Cap'n Limber. I needs ya to make a  little delivery
for me. If ya pull it off, I'll put in a
good word with you-knows-who. Huh? Don't give me that funny look, kid.
Are you in the eggs business or ain'tcha?
Geez louise. I'm talkin'   egg delivery  ! Ya know? Big, shiny egg ya gots to hold
over yer big, shiny noggin? Man, are you
scrambled or what. Look, read my lips. If you can deliver
a  Gargwa egg   without crackin'
things up, you can be one of the gang.  Opportunities like this only come
along once in a rigatoni, so don't mess
it up!  Talk to the missy in green if you want
the down low. The secret Quest name is
  " Egg-straction: Gargwa ."  And if you tell anybody about this,
ANYBODY...  thwack  Nobody, not NOBODY gets to know about
my top secret identity, capiche?  Psst! Hey smarty. I hear you delivered
the you-know-what to the you-know-where.
...Oh, come on. The   eggs  ! I passed your name aaaaaall the way up
to the top. Nyeh heh... You're in the big
leagues now. One of the gang!  The higher-ups might solicit ya to do a
little work, so try not to get egg on
yer face, capiche?  Now let's sing the syndicate song.
What? Don't look at me like that.  Ya ready? One, two, "Weeeeeee're
egg-cellent! We're"-- Huh? Oh jazz! It's the coppers!
Quick, play dumb! ...Uh, uh, uh, right.
Shopkeeper face! ...BAM! Fry up, Huntah! I mean...
Suit up, Huntah!  Hey, congratulations! I hear you're
the MVP this time around. Meh heh.  If you knew how many customers have asked
me to sell them what YOU wear... Thanks,
Huntah! Always appreciate the endorsement. Hey, is it true you blasted through the
Caravaneer's Challenge?  whistle  ...You're Grade A now, kid. Top egg in
the carton. Sunny-side ALL the way up.
Nyeh heh heh! And here I thought you was an egg geek
like the rest of us. Don't worry, yer
secret identity is safe with me. Ain't nobody ever gonna find out what's
under your shell, Your "Egg-cellency."
Nyeh heh heh!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC014 (Val Habar Resident).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC014 (Val Habar Resident).txt
SIZE: 10376 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:25:50
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 9fd3857051d5e875ff231d0a395847f033f6999b735973d8f9be04d8db8790c5
================================================================================

﻿Hiya! With all these shops to pick from,
it sure is tough deciding where to dump
all my zenny. Am I right? I am so right. Oh, hold on. You're making an "I'm new
to Val Habar" face. You poor thing!
Val Habar is totally da Flash Bomb.  It's so great, in fact, that I came from
WAY far away JUST to shop here. Thing is,
you can't find the village on any map. That's because Val Habar is permanently
attached to the Gathering Hall,
which moves from place to place.  Different caravans only know where
Val Habar is through word of mouth.  Every time I arrive here, I'm, like,
"Yes! I totally found it!" And then I
shop until my purse disintegrates. So, Hunter, is it safe to assume you came
to Val Habar for the  Gathering Hall  ?
Pssh, yeah. You and, like, EVERY hunter.  Well, you'll find the Gathering Hall
right down the center street. You see
the big ol' ship at the end? Yup.  It's practically FLOODED with hunters
24/7. We're talking hunter-geddon!
DUNH-DUH! Go check it out. Seriously, though, where the derp did
that Dah'ren Mohran come from?
If help hadn't arrived when it did...  Day-ang! I don't want to even think
about it. Thanks, Whoever-Called-
For-Help. ...Oh. It was you? Thanks, You!
...No, seriously. Who was it really?  Hiya, Hunter! Can I ask you a personal
question? Why is the Guild in such an
uproar?  ...What do you mean, "not a personal
question"? That totally depends on why
the Guild's in an uproar, DOESN'T IT? Holy sandwich, is it TRUE?
Are the Ace Hunters really in
the troublez?  Say it's all a lie! Say that they didn't
fail to come back from their Quest!
Say they aren't MIA! ...Hold me.  sob  You won't find Val Habar on any map.  That's because the market is permanently
attached to the Gathering Hall,
which moves from place to place. Different caravans only know where
Val Habar is through word of mouth.  Every time I arrive here, I'm, like,
"Yes! I totally found it!" Val Habar sure found a great place
to park this time. I mean, check it OUT! It's got desert AND
it's got ocean! Skiffs and boats BOTH
can come and go as they please. Doesn't the Guild have a special group
of hunters who handle special missions?
What were they called again? Oh yeah! "Ace Hunters"!
Kind of like how I'm a Price Hunter,
and my special mission is to shop. Hey, did you know the Guild's elite
team of hunters recently left Val Habar?  That's right. The   Ace Hunters !
They probably realized I already bought
all the good stuff. Heh heh.  Oh! Hey! You've been to Harth,
haven't you? How was it? ...Whoa! No kidding. All just lying there?
Bummer.  That explains why the merchant was saying
the Harth ore supply was all
dried up.  Is it just me, or has the Guild been
acting kind of, you know...
What's the word... Oh, right. FREAKED OUT. Did the mother of all monsters just show
up and eat their signpost or something?  Holy trousers! Is it true? I heard some
giant monster laid into you while you
were out for a cruise!  Shoot... You're lucky to be alive.
I guess that says a lot about your
skills and that giant whale you drive.  I heard you went to Cheeko Sands.
And by "went," I mean "accidentally
found." Bro fist! They call Cheeko Sands the "Village of
Strays" because it's full of Felynes.  ...Lur lur lur! I'm just joshin' ya!
They call it that because you have to get
lost to find it! The merchants said so.  I wonder if getting stranded here because
of monsters makes me eligible for losing
my way there... Hmm... So, the Ace Hunters' job was to
investigate that behemoth you bumped
bows with out at sea...  It was a known secret the Guild was
tracking some new kind of monster, but I
didn't expect it to hit so close to home.  At least I don't have to totally lose
my snot over it, since you and the
Ace Hunters are on the job.  Gore Magala...
I'd definitely heard the name before.
...See? Shopper ears.  Anyway, thanks, Hunter! We were all
TOTALLY moved by what you did.  sniff
...See? Now I'm in shopper TEARS.  Have you and your Caravan been eating
mushrooms or something, because you have
totally POWERED UP.  ...Wait, what? You can fly?
You flew? In the air? You flappity-floated all the way to some
place called Cathar?!  I've heard of that! Of all the Wyverian
villages, that one's at the highest
amplitude. Aptitude. ...Wait. Is it just me, or has there been a hike
in the number of hunters being carted back
to the Gathering Hall? No wonder, either! The monsters they're
used to handling have all gone starkers!
Bonkers. Berserkers? One or two of those.  Really? The Caravaneer accomplished his
ultimate goal? That is so rathical! But knowing him, he'll journey until his
legs fall off. Am I right? At least he's found a good friend to
make the trip with. You should HEAR him
gush about you, you pile-of-awesome, you!  Hey, have you ever met a master hunter?
Like, you know, a real cream-of-the-crop
type.  I hear they're all, like, one with nature
and can walk on water and read your
mind and stuff. ...Lur lur lur! I'm just joshin' ya!
But master hunters ARE supposed to be
just about the nicest around.  Did you know the Ace Hunters drop
by Val Habar from time to time?
Yup yup!  I think the Cadet likes fawning over
your Guildmarm from afar. Like...really,
really afar.  Hmph. If I were him, I'd just go for
broke. You can faint as many times as
you want, but you only live once!  Oh my BACON! Can you believe it?
The time has come. ...You know?
THE TIME?  Around this time of year, a suuuper-famous
monster with ore on its back coasts past
Val Habar.  Naturally, that makes the town a magnet
for big-shot hunters. Well, I mean, not
LITERALLY a magnet... Anyway, the Guild preps a whole gauntlet
of nasty Quests to put those hunters to
the test. Hoo boy! You should see the hunters pull out
every trick in the book just to win!
Well, I mean, there isn't literally a book...  Looks like everyone's strapping in for a
good time, but let's not forget to thank
nature and stuff. Thanks, Nature and Stuff!
I tip my hat to you, monsters!  I hear the Guild Store in the
Gathering Hall stocks different items
from the local market.  Maybe I should become a real actual hunter
so I can get my shopper hands ALL over
their snooty elite merchandise. Aw, dang it. Why does my life have to
be so-- Oh! Hello, hunter from the flyer!
Let me unload on you. You see, I was totally ready to call it
a shopping trip and head home, BUT... Well some stupid  Jaggi  are blocking
my way outta here. Bummer!  You know what I don't want? I don't want a
buncha Jaggi chewing me into tiny pieces.  Could you get out there and   put the
kibosh on those things  ? I filed a Quest with the Guildmarm called
  " Lair Scare  ."  Please, Hunter! You and your eyebrows
are my only hope! Aw, double drat! I can't believe this
keeps happening to-- Oh! Hi, Hunter!  Thanks for obliterating those Jaggi
for me! Now I can totally go home!
...Pfft, not!  Now a   Great Jaggi  has decided to park
its behind right in the middle of my
happy trails. ...That came out wrong! Anyway, I totally
don't want some ugly Great Jaggi
getting my hair stuck in its teeth.  Please! I filed a Quest called
 " Jaggi Alliance  " JUST so you
could do it for me! Send me home, Hunter. SEND ME HOME! Wow, Hunter! Thanks for sending that
Great Jaggi packing! I'll go pack my bags. Hopefully my little
sister and brother haven't fallen off
any cliffs while I was away.  And this sand in my armpits! Ouch!
I just want to go home.  So long, Val Habar! Thanks for
eating up most of my expendable income!  Oh my GRAVY. I feel like I'm smacking
my head against the wall of destiny!
 smack  Ow! Like that! ...Oh! Hi, Hunter! Ready for me to unload
on you again? Good. You see...I WANT TO GO HOME.
I want to wash this sand out of my
armpits once and for all. I'm talking BIG hunk of soap and a
lathering that will cleanse all of
humanity. But it's not to be! Why? Because not one, but TWO
  Gypceros   have decided to block
my only way outta here! The NERVE! Just because I scratch my armpits a lot
doesn't mean I'm itchin' to become a
poison-monster sandwich, m'kay?  I filed a Quest called
 " Poison Patrol ,"
so make some magic happen. Magic me home, hunter. MAGIC ME HOME! Wow, Hunter! Thanks for knocking that
Gypceros duo for a loop!  I'd better hightail it outta here while
the goin' is still good.  Hang tight, little bro'! Don't be dead,
little sis'! I'm comin' home to wash
this sand away!  What the hoopla! I was all ready to leave
now that the Shagaru Magala menace
was gone, but NOOOOOO. THIS time, a  Rathian  and  Rathalos  
have decided that screwdooling my only
way out of town would be funny. IT'S NOT FUNNY! I hate monster couples! Listen, please. I filed a Quest called
 " Two Live Crew " so
you can give those fire freaks a divorce.  Divorce me home, Hunter.
DIVORCE ME HOME! Thanks, Hunter! I totally thought you
were gonna say N-O to that last request.  But now Val Habar's big hunter
event has started... To be honest, I kind of want to stick
around and see how it all turns out...  My house isn't going anywhere, am I
right? I'll head home once this is over.  Holy snapcrackle, Hunter! Did you hear? Apparently, a SINGLE hunter overcame every
one of the challenges! It's, like, some
kind of historical superfeat!  ...Oh. It was you? Wow, You!
...No, seriously. Who was it really? I have the latest edition right here,
and the picture looks NOTHING like you.
See? The eyebrows are all wrong.  Anyway, it's time for me to head home,
but I'd better shop around for some
souvenirs before I go. Criminal sister negligence is TOTALLY
okay if I bring my little sibs some gifts,
am I right? I am so right. Hey, Hunter! Did you hear? Some super-
hunter is blowing the world away by
finishing some impossible Quest! ...Oh. It was you? Holy basket! There I was, dumping all my silly little
problems on you, and you were ACTUALLY
IMPORTANT!  I really ought to just head home, but
Val Habar has grown on me like
a mold.  Well, I mean, not LITERALLY. Not
anymore. I found a bar of soap, so I
could finally flush out my pits!  Also, my little brother and sister wrote
to tell me they're moving out. ...How old
are they now, anyway? Whatever.  They should come to Val Habar! And shop!
Am I right? I am so right.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC016 (Yukumo Hunter).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC016 (Yukumo Hunter).txt
SIZE: 4175 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:27:28
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 4ff4c03af71852d6223edf99cab8b0662065f39255a6afe97f5b691e9f03ce44
================================================================================

﻿Sawaa, friend. Are you a hunter?
I come all the way from Yukumo Village.  Hunting with friends can be exciting...
intimidating...even aggravating...
But the elation gained surpasses all, yes? Did you know you can exchange items with
your companions? Just choose an item from
your Item Pouch, and then select "Give." However, you are not permitted to hand
over precious monster materials or very
rare items. We must hunt fairly, friend. Team hunting requires both planning and
improvisation.  For example, a wise strategy would be to
have a Hammer wielder attack a monster's
head while you try to cut off its tail. If your Hunting Horn wielder is trying
to perform, then act as a decoy and lead
monsters away.  Be aware of what is unfolding, and know
when and how to adapt. The extra thought
will pay off in kills AND thrills! Sawaa, friend. How have you been? I was
just on my way to the Gathering Hall to
hunt with my team.  But it sounds as though pandemonium has
struck the Guild... Whatever could be the
matter? Have you heard anything?  Sawaa, friend. Have you heard the
terrible news? I hope the Ace Hunters
pull through... What am I saying? Of course they will.
The Guild has sent their finest search
team, who deserve our utmost faith. Are you familiar with an item called
the Field Horn? It is used to attract
monsters' attention. While extremely dangerous for the user,
it can save a comrade's life if used in
his or her hour of need.  Lifepowder is a fine item to carry when
hunting in groups.  It heals not only the user, but nearby
comrades as well... Ahh! I must confess,
I have a soft spot for the Lifepowder.  Sawaa, and how fares the hunt? The last
time I hunted with friends, one of them
used a Voucher for us.  You see, a Voucher covers meals for
all hunters present when playing
Multiplayer. And what a fine meal it was! Of course,
I thanked my friend. Manners are the
finest dessert, as we in Yukumo say. Listen, friend! You must hear of this
terrible blunder I made!  I detonated a bomb without realizing my
friends were in range of the blast... They were blown sky high right along with
the monster! Ha ha ha...  In the end, we laughed it off, but in the
future I should probably be more careful
not to make my friends explode.  Team hunting requires both planning and
improvisation.  For example, a wise strategy would be to
have a Hammer wielder attack a monster's
head while you try to cut off its tail. If your Hunting Horn wielder is trying
to perform, then act as a decoy and lead
monsters away.  Be aware of what is unfolding, and know
when and how to adapt. The extra thought
will pay off in kills AND thrills! Have you heard of Dung Bombs? They are
made of monster feces, and the dangedable
things reek like a rectal breeze.  But! With a well-aimed toss, you can use a
Dung Bomb to free yourself OR a comrade if
you get caught by a monster.  Just remember to aim for the monster.
...Not your comrade.  Did you know you can exchange Items with
your companions? Just choose an Item from
your Item Pouch, and then select "Give." However, you are not permitted to hand
over precious monster materials or very
rare items. We must hunt fairly, friend. Sawaa, friend. Will you, too, be taking a
crack at this difficult Quest?  Truth be told, it is the sole reason I
came to Val Habar. So, as much as I
admire you, prepare to be soundly bested.  This Gathering Hall may have a kitchen,
but Yukumo has a public bath. Believe it
or not, men and women bathe together!  By the four winds! Leave some glory for
the rest of us, friend! I must train more diligently if there are
hunters like you ready to make short work
of such challenging Quests. I shall grace the next front page! And I
must definitely take care not to hire the
artist who drew your eyebrows as such... Is it true you completed the
Caravaneer's absurd challenge?
I cannot believe it!  I still remember the day we first met.
I said, "Sawaa!" and you looked back at
me with the soppy eyes of a novice.  Now even my friends in Yukumo have heard
of you! I have much work to do before I
can again call myself your equal.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC017 (Val Habar Hunter).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC017 (Val Habar Hunter).txt
SIZE: 4844 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:27:42
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 51a437e5e36f2d7c23b17e9624d396bef16eeeb0b2289424878243e988b80c4f
================================================================================

﻿So, are you off to the Gathering Hall
because I totally go there all the time
and we should hang out. Hunting is so much better if you find
lots of friends to hunt with and it's
easier too if you want my opinion.  At the Gathering Hall you can choose
between Solo and Local Play and
Online Multiplayer which is three modes. Choose Solo to play offline and one of the
Multiplayer Modes to play with others since
"Multi" is basically the opposite of solo. Hey have you ever heard of Guild Cards
which are like these things you hand out
to introduce yourself to people and stuff?  They list the weapons you've used and
monsters you've hunted and lots of really
interesting information like your name. If you meet any new friends you should
totally trade Guild Cards so you can
hang out again and maybe have a steak.  Hey did you just get back from a hunt?
Because I did too which would make us
like coming-home-buddies.  ...Whoa! You hunted a Najarala?
......! I didn't do that. Oh no! Did you hear because some of the
Ace Hunters have gone missing!! Okay okay breathe stay calm. We don't
want to panic because then all the non-
hunters will panic too which would be bad.  I hear the Guild has taken measures to
ensure their rescue so I'll just stay here
and pray everything is cool how about you?  Hey have you ever heard of Guild Cards
which are like these things you hand out
to introduce yourself to people and stuff?  They list the weapons you've used and
monsters you've hunted and lots of really
interesting information like your name. If you meet any new friends you should
totally trade Guild Cards so you can
hang out again and maybe have a steak.  At the Gathering Hall you can choose
between Solo and Local Play and
Online Multiplayer which is three modes. Choose Solo to play offline and one of the
Multiplayer Modes to play with others since
"Multi" is basically the opposite of solo. Hi there do you know what a Hunter Rank is
and that it's called HR for short?
Because I do. Your Hunter Rank is basically a quotient
of how seasoned a hunter you are.  You can only do some Quests if you have
a high enough HR but don't worry. The folks at the Gathering Hall will
increase your HR if you complete certain
Quests which is super nice of them. Hi! How are you and have you noticed that
Guild Cards have a special section
called the Hunter's Journal? It's a detailed record of the hunter's
Quests and personal Arena bests and
what medals he or she has earned.  Just don't look at the number of times
I've fainted because it's totally not
accurate and I never faint.  Hi there have you ever wanted to know
how big the monsters you've hunted are?
Because I have. The Guild Card's Monster Log keeps
track of the biggest and smallest beasts
you've hunted and what their size is. If you manage to hunt really big or really
small monsters you get a little crown mark
so you can feel all regal and stuff.  You're allowed to take just your
Main Palico with you if you go
hunting with friends but there's a catch. If you go hunting with TWO or THREE
pals then you're not allowed to bring your
Main Palico and it has to sit out. But don't be sad 'cause if you have so many
friends then you're way tough already and
one of them might meow if you ask nicely. In addition to trading Guild Cards with
hunting companions you can also pick them
up randomly through StreetPass. Basically anybody can see your card so
you should be careful about what you write
and not say dirty mean things.  I mean what if you meet someone cool but
they decide you're socially inept and
stuff? Good hunters are caring hunters.  Oh hi are you here to take part in the
big You-Know-What hunt? Because I am.  Everybody wants in because you get all
kinds of fame and glory and the kids ask
you to sign their arms and it's great.  Why else would I come to Val Habar and
talk your ear off? May the best hunter win
which I hope is me. Do you know you can change the pose and
scene on your Guild Card?
Because I do. Let's see how yours is set up.
...Whoa! Check out your setup!
......! Mine doesn't look that good.  Wow you really are amazing because did
you hear? This is the first time a single
person blew through all those challenges.  All those hunters who were jelly of you
along the way probably all want to BE you
now because I certainly do. Hi there and did you know rumors are
going around about you? But don't worry
because they're all good.  They say you bested some kinda mega-hard
super Quest and joined the pantheon of
hunter legends which I guess is good. When I first met you I wasn't all that
impressed but then you changed my mind by
impressing me. Congratulations on leaving me in the dust
which goes to show I should spend way less
time talking and more time hunting RIGHT?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC020 (Harth Chief).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC020 (Harth Chief).txt
SIZE: 18232 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:27:52
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: c36def2b41c1e30c5f73f1416870d6d35fcfbb97b0305698d0d5538f940f2bcf
================================================================================

﻿*Sigh* Sorry you had to come all this
way for nothing...but we can't make you
a ship in this state... The lava flow's gone kaput and so has
our will to do pretty much anything...  Not to mention the  Tetsucabra   that's
blocking us from mining any materials...  I think this is the end of the Troverian
race! *sniff* We're d-done for... Bawww! I'm really sorry to let you down.
We love building stuff -- but no lava
plus no materials equals no can do. We're stuck between a clog and a hard
place. It's all looking way too grim to
be building giant ships!  Maybe you can work on some other errands
while I try to find out what happened
to the lava. That Wyverian fellah with ya is gonna
do your ship blueprints? You can't go
wrong with Wyverian design! My little girl wants to help out, too.  Well, work her to the bone, I say!
Experiences like this build character, heh!  ...Huh? You say my daughter helped you
while we were all zonked out?
No kidding...  I'm so proud of her! I'm so proud I
think I might... I might... Bawww!
*sniff*  Ah, hello! ...Hm? Who, this burly bunch?
These are special hunters known as the
Ace Hunters.  We get lots of hunters in our village
looking to craft and tinker and what
have you.  My little girl goes crazy every time a
hunter waltzes in with new equipment.
You practically have to hold her down! So, what do you think of my little girl?
She's a peach, ain't she?  A little chickadee like her has a lot to
learn before she can be an artisan. She
knows it, too, which is what worries me... I don't want that luggamajug goin' off on
some journey of self-discovery! She's too
dang young, dang it!  Once she learns every last trick up every
last Troverian's sleeve, THEN maybe I'll
let her expand her horizons past Harth.  A Nerscylla is what's stopping
up the lava. You've got to help us get
the village back to normal! Please, get rid of the monster for us.  If you rekindle our fires and our
spirits, we'd be more than delighted to
make you one WHALE of a ship! Hmm? The Ace Hunters?
They just left on a ship. And best of luck to them, too. I hope
our Troverian handiwork takes 'em far.  That's all we want, really -- for the
hunters of the world to come back safe.
We'll help any way we can, heh. An airship! Now there's a tall order!
With a heap of Coal, we could get it done,
but that Gravios... Grr. Go hunt it down for us, Hunter.
Hunt it like there's no tomorrow, heh!  The sky, huh? We Troverians like it
down here under the dirt. No offense,
heh heh!  I tell ya, there's nothing like the flicker
of the earth-fires! The ebb and flow of
lava as it pulses through rock! This crimson goodness is enough to get
any Troverian's blood boiling -- how
'bout yours?  Hm? What's up? Oh, you want to know
about Relic polishing?  That's Troverian craft right there.
We invented it! Of course, it was a Wyverian that
brought us the art of forging in the
first place. My great-granddaddy said so.  That was ages ago, though. More years
than you or I can count, heh! We get cartloads of hunters here in Harth.
Naturally, the main draw is Relic
polishing. Heh heh!  If you find any Relics while you're out
on Expeditions or Guild Quests, you
know where to bring 'em!  The Antiquary will get them
sparkling in no time flat!  The lava and ores down here are like
family to us. After all, we Troverians
make our home underground.  Couldn't tell ya if they're the reason
we're down here or the reward, though. But thanks to nature's little furnace
here, we're able to churn out some of the
biggest crafts the world has ever seen. If you want to build it big, you know
where to come, heh! Wait... Is this the first time you've ever
seen Troverians? ...Ha. I suppose that IS a silly
question. It's very rare that we ever go
above ground. We like it down and dirty, heh heh!
Down here you can feel the world's pulse,
like one big beating heart. Listen hard enough, and before you know
it you've started digging! ...No? I guess
it's just a Troverian thing.  I tell ya, I never thought my little girl
would get to work side by side with a
real, bona fide Wyverian. She always said she wanted a Wyverian
forging instructor to show her the ropes. Wyverians invented the whole business,
so I'm sure there's much she could learn.  The lengths to which humans will go to
get what they want...*sigh*  Sorry to gripe... But I've got to say,
that Caravaneer and my daughter are both
just so dang stubborn.  My little girl is a regular whiz kid
when it comes to Decorations.  She must have learned watching her ma,
but that's only half of it. The other
half is raw, natural talent. I could stand to learn a few things from
her the way it stands! I'm as proud as
a father can be. Heh heh! Hey, Hunter. How's the lil'un?  Is she doing her share of work? Is she
respecting the crew? Does she do what
she's told?  Is she eating three square meals a day?
Is she getting enough exercise? Is she
learning fast enough?  Does she run in circles and shriek a lot?
Does she cover her mouth when she sneezes?
Does she-- Wait... Where was I going with this again?  *Sniff* My hammer...
How could it break?  Maybe it means I'm broken...
Arrgh, just end it all, you cruel agents
of fate who did this to me! *sob* Baw haw hawww!  That hammer was supposed to guide my
little girl to her future! It was the
needle in her compass! And look what I've done...*sniff*
Bawww!  Sweetie, I'm sorry. I broke your hammer...
*sob*  You stayed up night after night to make
it for me, and look what I've done...
*gasp* *bawl* *wheeze*  What? You say you're too shy to invite
a stranger on a hunt? I'll tell you how
to break the ice.  Find the barrel in the middle of the
Gathering Hall and Arm Wrestle with
the sucker. You'll be fast friends, heh! Off for a hunt?
Bring back some good materials, then! *Sniff, sob* Why? WHY?!
It's all over. We're done for. Finished.  Without the lava flowing, we can't mine...
Our whole civilization will shrivel up
like a Huskberry... Gods, why?! *snort* What did the Troverians ever do to you?
Why are you trying to DESTROY us?
Bawww!  ...Hmm? Who are you? A visitor? *Ahem* I, uh... *cough*
Yes, I am the village chief here in Harth.
...What's that?  Oh, you want to build a ship? Well. *ahem*
As you can see, we might have a little
trouble helping you in that department. The lava flowing from the volcano
suddenly dried up, and worse yet, a
  Tetsucabra   has taken over the mine. If we Troverians can't mine, then we
can't craft, and if we can't craft, we're
nothing but useless piles of pudding.  *Sniff* I thought we had a grand future
ahead of us... *whimper* But no! No!  Forgive me, little one! Forgive your pop
for withering away into oblivion before
he could see you reach womanhood!  *Gasp* I can't breathe... *wheeze*
Is this the end? *sputter* ...I'm done talking to you now, by
the way. Hunter! There you are. I've been waiting
for you to return, heh!  It's always nice to see ya back in one
piece, Hunter. Ya did good.  I hear you're the one who got rid of that
Tetsucabra for us.  Where do I even begin?! I guess "thank
you" would be a place to start, heh! Our village relies on lava to produce our
crafts, but for whatever reason the
volcano's juice has stopped flowing.  The Tetsucabra was making it even
worse by stopping us from gathering the
materials we need.  Ya caught us in a real mess.  But anyway, are you still looking to build
yourselves a ship? We won't get far with a project that big
without the lava, so I'll see if I can
find out what's impeding it. Hang tight!  That we will! Let's focus on designin' the
ship while we wait. The Man oughta be able
to cook a blueprint up in his sleep.  Ha! I wouldn't put it past a Wyverian.
They can make anything!  So, Caravaneer, where are you planning on
taking this grand ship of yours?  I'm so glad you asked!  We're tryin' to find out the nature of
this here Article. Have a gander.  Whoa!!! This is...incredible. You know how to pick your mysterious
objects, I'll give you that, heh!  It reminds me of a similar object my
great-granddaddy once told me about... Hmm? Do tell. When he was still a young pup, my great-
granddaddy said Harth was visited by a
legendary Wyverian artisan. The artisan had a strange artifact with
him that gleamed brighter than the sun. Apparently, he came from a  Wyverian village  
far across the sea, though I couldn't tell
you exactly where.  What was it called again?
Hmm...  Ah yes. The village of  Cathar  . Har har. I like this story. Well, if you're building a ship, you
need a destination. Why not search for
Cathar, heh?  You've talked me into it, Chief.
I smell a big clue comin' from Cathar's
general direction. Since that's settled... Hunter!
Go  talk to The Man  and see what he can do
as far as designin' our ship. He'll probably need some materials.
That'll be your job.  Hunter, Hunter! Guess what! I managed to pinpoint what's keeping the
lava from flowing. I chased the hardened lava all the way
upstream and you'll never BELIEVE what
was hiding back there.  A monster called the  Nerscylla  has
built a snug little nest right where the
lava comes out! I noticed a huge boulder in front of the
lava spout and had just pulled out my
Pickaxe when I felt this cold stare... And there it was! A big, ugly
Nerscylla with nasty pincers!
The big luggamajug! Blegh! It was hideous! I could feel it
staring me down, as if to say,
"No touchy my bouldery!"  *Ahem* Anyway, I uh... *cough*
I hightailed it outta there as fast as
my Troverian legs would take me.  Do Harth a favor, Hunter. Whack that
Nerscylla and restore Harth to its
usual vim and vigor. I'm beggin' ya!  Take it out and we can get the lava flowing
right back here to the village. Then, you get
your ship!  It...it's stunning! *sniff*
I should have known my little girl's
blueprints would...would... Bawww! Go ahead, Caravaneer. Give this beauty
a name. She's ready to weather the
stormiest of seas -- I guarantee it!  I'm certainly proud of her! I really
poured my heart into this one, sir!  At last, the Capital C has its own ship!
And I've already picked out a name, too. I'm gonna call her the  Arluq .
It means "whale"! Ohh... I like that.
It has a nice ring to it! With a proud name like that, she's certain
to take you far, heh heh!  Thanks, Chief. Now let's raise anchor
and make way for Cathar!  Wh-wh-whoa. You're leaving? Already?  Take care, Little Miss. I know that one
day you'll be the finest artisan the
world has ever seen. Har!  Prepare us for departure, Chief.  ...Hey hey hey! Double hey! Just hold on!
You have to take me with you! Huh?! Did you just say... Now hold on there, missy! No one gave
you permission to leave! *grumble, curse* But Pop, I HAVE to go! How else am I
ever gonna learn anything new? I've got to see the world.
More importantly, I've got to see more
Wyverians so they can teach me stuff! Besides, the Caravan needs me. I'm, like,
their go-to Decorations person now. I plan on being a   permanent fixture in
their Smithy , no ifs, ands, or buts!  Please, Mister Caravaneer? Pleeeease?!
I'll work my hiney off, I swear! *Whimper* *wheeze*  Sorry Chief, but I don't think a well-
timed breathin' emergency is gonna stop
the Miss now. Har! Her mind's made up! All right, Little Miss Forge! I like yer spirit!
And besides, the Capital C doesn't
discriminate. You're in!  Now how about ya give her a nice sendoff,
Chief. A nice little boost while she rockets
into history!  B-but... I don't want to rocket
my little girl into history... *sniff*  Gaaah, fine! She's human, she probably
can't help it. She must get this rebellious
streak from her blood parents. Hmph! But as crazies as humans are, they pull off
some incredible things. I wish you the
best, lil'un.  Get out there and sap the world
dry of knowledge! No matter how far you
go, you'll always be my daughter. Aw Pop. No fair getting me
all emotional!
I love you, too.  Okay, you all ready? How about you, sir?
And you, mister The Man? I guess I'd better start calling
you "Teach," huh...? Anyway, nice to be aboard!
By which I mean this is SO incredibly
COOL! Woohoo!  Well, if she's happy, I'm happy.  Now then, Kindred Hunter.
Give the Chief the word, and we'll be off!  Oh ho ho! Is that you, Hunter?
Welcome back, welcome back!  So how is the lil'un? Is she eating three
square meals a day without fussing? Is she in your hair? Is she pulling her
own load? Is she-- Huh? What's that? You want to build a what?
An... An   airship ? BWAAA HA HA! An airship? So you can fly?
HA HA HA! Brilliant! You know what? You're on. I know by now
that if I don't help you fly, you'll take
off anyway and leave me in the dust.  All right, what we need is some serious
heat -- a whole mountain of Coal! Well, lucky for you, all these caves were
created due to volcanic activity. Did
you know that?  Volcanic activity makes it easier for us
to get our hands on heaps of Coal, heh!  One problem -- and yes, it rhymes with
"fonsters."  The caverns are CRAWLING with monsters that
are highly resistant to heat. Mining is a
more hazardous occupation than ever!  Whenever the diggers try to get some Coal,
they keep running into a   Gravios ! The big luggamajug! Hunter, if you can drive that Gravios
away, we can go hunt Coal for the airship.  It'll be done faster than you can say
"Troverian treacle"!  Good luck in there! Hunter! Just the person I wanted to see.
How are ya?! More importantly, how's the lil'un?
Is she eating three square meals a day
without fussing? Is she in your hair? Is she pulling her
own load? Is she-- Huh? What? How am *I* doing? Outside of being
constantly worked to death? Heh! I guess I just wish my little girl would
pay more attention to me. She barely
gives me a second look these days. *sniff*  What am I doing wrong?
Actually, I made a flowchart of how to
get her to like me again. Step 1. Bring home more ore!
Step 2. Increase job market with ore.
Step 3. Become best chief ever.  Ya see? I understand how to impress
my daughter. It's a science, really.  And you're just the person to help me.
Think you could  take out a monster that's
haunting the mine ? I put a Quest in with the Guild called
 " Advanced: Miner Issues  ."  Thanks in advance! Just wait till she
sees the ore-storm me and my hammer whip
up this time, heh! You there! You completed the Quest,
didn't ya? "Advanced: Miner Issues"?  Thanks! I'm workin' up a storm as
a result. I'll show the lil'un that I'm
the bestest chief ever! But I'd better not quit now... Hmm. Think you could   take out another monster
that's haunting the mine ? I put a Quest in with the Guild called
 " Advanced: Predator into Prey. " Thanks in advance! Me and my hammer are
ready to whip up another ore-storm! Ohh... Hunter... Thanks for completing
that Quest... "Advanced: Predator into Prey"...  I sure showed the lil'un what a great
chief I am... But, um...unfortunately...  I worked so hard that my hammer snapped
right in two. *sniff* That hammer was my missus' dying gift
to me. I think a piece of my heart broke
with it... *whimper* Bwaaa! I'm finished! Ruined!
Forgive me, lil'un! I'm all washed up! Bwaaa! Gaaaa! Hwaaa! ...Um, what else
ends in "ah" and sounds miserable?
...Ngwaaa! Hunter! Get a load of this! My daughter
made me this hammer as a gift!  What incredible work... It's as good or
better than the missus gave me... When did my little girl get so TALENTED?
She's passing the rest of the family up! ...Ah. That look in your eye. You helped
her, didn't you? Thank you!  What with you and the lil'un and the
village all pitching in, I must be the
happiest chief alive. *sniff* I think I'm gonna... Bwaaa! *sob*
I'm so haaapppeeeeee! *bawl*  Oho! Hunter! I hear you blew right
through that super-hard Quest!
Very impressive!  I just wanna say... *sniff*
Hold on... *whimper* Getting choked up... I just want to say that it's been a
real honor to be the father of the
girl who Decorates your gear. *gasp* It makes me just wanna... Bwaaa! *sob*
I'm so haaapppeeeeee! *bawl* Well, Hunter, it looks like the time has
come for you to set sail. But before you
do, I need to tell you one thing. These are dangerous waters, so consider
yourself duly warned:   anything at all
could happen once you go out to sea . Make sure you're  fully prepared   --
that means your   Item Pouch, your
equipment  , everything! Got it? Right. Enough lecturing.  So are you ready to head to your
next destination?  Want to set sail? Right! All aboard the Arluq, then!  All right, then. Take your time to
fully prepare and then come talk to me
when you're ready.  In fact, take lots of time before you...
leave with my daughter...and go really
really far out to sea... *sob*  Oh, just hurry up. Why are you prolonging
my agony? *bawl*  I heard what happened, Hunter.
The Caravaneer told me everything.
Sounds like you had it rough out there. I know that won't stop you. Danger's just
one more obstacle on the road to
adventure, right?  So are you ready?
If you sail out there again, you might run
into the same monster again... But enough lectures.  Are you ready to head to your next
destination?   Want to set sail? Right. Be careful, then!
...All hands, prepare for departure! All right, then. No need to rush in.
Come talk to me when you're ready. It... It's stunning! *sniff*
I should have known my little girl's
blueprints would...would... Bawww!  Go ahead, Caravaneer. Give this beauty
a name. She's ready to weather the
stormiest of skies -- I guarantee it! I can't believe it's really happening...  My little girl is about to fly off to
the home of the Wyverians. She always
dreamed of this...  Are you ready to head to your next
destination?   Want to fly to Cathar?  Right! All aboard the airship, then!  All right, then. Take your time to
fully prepare and then come talk to me
when you're ready.  In fact, take lots of time before you...
leave with my daughter...and fly off into
the great blue yonder... *sob* Oh, just hurry up. Why are you prolonging
my agony? *bawl*



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC021 (Harth Merchant).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC021 (Harth Merchant).txt
SIZE: 7115 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:28:02
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 42ff5377451ea9320f7818ef7b147b993e8f77bf8bb5ac8e1e4b69c64d6bfc77
================================================================================

﻿Anyway. Less talky, more spendy.  Don't be a stranger!  Anyway. Less talky, more spendy.
Half off today!  Huh?! Shucks, Hunter!! I can't give you
my present if your Item Box is full!  Come back once you clean that sucker out!!  What am I doing here? There's no point...
No point at all...  Oh... A customer...  sigh
Don't worry...I may not have much pep...
but I can still count out your change...  Hunter! Hunter! Hunter!! Can you
believe it?! Where did all this vim come
from?! This vigor?! It's CRAZY! Anyway, check out my new wares.
I've got Bowgun ammo...AND! This super
handy Organizer Guide! Whoa!!  How long has it been since the lava
stopped, anyway? I tell ya, work went
right down the dung-chute...  Anyway, I hear you want to build a ship.
Get the lava going again and just about
anything is possible.  Anyway, check out my new wares.
I've got Bowgun ammo...AND! This super
handy Organizer Guide! Whoa!!  Hey! Hunter!! Are you an acquaintance of
that young fellow over there?  Do me a favor and tell him I can't
take my prices down any further.
Guy's trying to put me out of business!!  What?! Say WHAT?! You want to know what
items to use to capture a monster?! Come ON now! Everybody knows you need
Tranq Bombs and either a Shock Trap or
a Pitfall Trap!  You can make a Tranq Bomb by combining
Tranquilizer with a Bomb Casing. Shock Traps are made with Trap Tools
and Thunderbugs... And Pitfall Traps are made with Trap
Tools and Nets.  I've got some Trap Tools in stock right
here! Want to take a few off my hands?  Hunter, did you hear?! There might be a
way to restore the lava! Go talk to the
Chief!  Look after the lil'un for us, Hunter,
since the Chief might be making with
the "precipitation" for a while longer...  Hey!! Hunter!! How's the lil'un doing?
...Good to hear, good to hear! So is it true you're trying to build a
ship that FLIES?! Hah!! You're always
good for a laugh!  Y-you really made an airship!!
Will wonders never cease?! Take care of the lil'un while you're
whooshing around up there in the great
beyond or whatever! Show her the world!!  Have you got an Antidote with you?!
The day you forget one while facing some
toxic beast is the day you check out!  The sky's the limit when you start
combining with a Trap Tool!  You can make Pitfall Traps, Shock Traps...
You could turn the whole hunt around!! You haven't fished with a Worm till you've
tried the one I sell right here! A Worm'll get you the freshest fish
around. They'll practically leap onto the
hook! They'll beg you to fish 'em!! Well, maybe I'm getting carried away.
But the early Worm DOES get the fish!
Heh heh.  Things can get a little "hot" when you start
combining with Gunpowder! Keep your wits
about you, or it's ker-bang!! Ka-boom!! Whetstones are Blademaster essentials!
Make sure you stock up -- no being stingy! Otherwise, you'll be bawling big time
once the hunt starts to drag on.
Just like the Chief! Shucks, am I sleepy. Think I need a swig
of this here Energy Drink.
 chug chug  ...Hoo! WOW!! I am PUMPED!!! If somebody
wrote out what I'm saying, there'd have
to be, like, FIVE exclamation points!!!!!  Hey hey!! Did you know that capturing
a monster gives you access to different
materials than when you carve it up?  You'll need Tranq Bombs to pull it off.
Don't forget to combine 'em up! Hey hey!! Ever heard of an item called
a Catalyst? They're super handy!!  You can combine Catalysts into everything
under the sun! ...And under the ground! Oh, right. If you combine a Rare Steak
and a Catalyst, you'll end up with
Dash Juice. That stuff lets you run without breaking
wind! ...I mean, without getting winded!
I mean, you don't run out of Stamina. Hey!! Hunter!! Great timing.
The thing is, our Chief's hammer
decided to go breaky-breaky.  We want to give him a brand new one!!
Think you can help?!  Whoa!! Hunter!! You chased off that
Tetsucabra, didn't you? Thanks!!  We mustered up the courage to go mine
the hammer materials, but, uh... Urp.
There was another monster!! Why do we have such rotten luck?!
WHY?! Anyway, you know the drill.  Sob  Every time we start digging,
we bump into some gargantuan super-
monster!! I just don't get it!!  Please, hunter!! Help us out!!
We're in dung stew without a spoon
this time!  Thanks, Hunter!! You're a real champ for
helping the lil'un and taking out that
bully of a monster. We're gonna go mine ourselves those
materials we need for the Chief's
hammer, so hang tight!  I know!! Maybe you could work on boosting
your HR until we get back?! I sure do like Paintballs!! You can use
'em to help fellow hunters in other areas
keep tabs on where the monster is!  Whew...
Step right up... I guess... Sorry if I seem under the weather...
I can't seem to...get into my
work these days... Is there anything you want? Because...
I just got some new things in stock... Normal S Lv3, Pierce S Lv2, Flaming S,
Freeze S...  I'd keep going, but why? There's no
point... No point at all... Hey hey!! Hunter!! Boy, do I owe you
big time. Thanks a megaton!  Here, let me give you this. It's the
least I can do!  It's called a   Talisman  ! Talismans have "Skill Points" just like
equipment.  So if you put one on, it will add to
your Skill Point tally just like your
other equipment does!  This Talisman comes with Skill Points
for "Auto-Guard," which is super useful
for beginners.  If you use a weapon with blocking
capabilities, definitely equip this
Talisman! You won't be sorry!!  To equip a Talisman, use the  Item Box  
in your house. Okay?! Okay!! You can find more Talismans by mining.
And lucky for you, I see Pickaxes right
here at the market!  Now take your Talisman! Take it!
TAKE IT! Hey hey!! Hunter!! The lady at the
Val Habar Market filled me in! You agreed to deliver the Sushifish,
and you didn't even make an annoyed face
or ANYTHING -- ya big luggamajug! Think you could do me a solid, too?!  My lil'un put together a fishbowl the
other day, but!! She doesn't have
any fish to put in it. What!! Since I'm lousy at fishing, I was hoping
you could bring me some  Small Goldenfish  . I filed a Quest with the Guildmarm called
  " Fish Wish "!! I'm counting on you, Hunter!!
BIG TIME! Thanks for delivering those Small
Goldenfish, Hunter! You're the best!! Now my lil'un's fishbowl is gonna take
the fishbowl world BY STORM! To show my gratitude, I bragged about
you to a fishing friend who lives WAY
far away. How useful is that?!  Expect to get more work down the line!! Hey hey!! Hunter!! Get a load of this!
We finished making the hammer! How unbelievable are you, hunting the
Teostra to pieces like that?! The lil'un's hammer will NEVER break!
And neither will the Chief's resolve.
Never again!! Harth is back, baby!! Hip hip...hooray!!
Hip hip...hooray!! Bouncing Brachydios!!
What are they FEEDIN' you, Hunter?! Way to chew your way through that
impossible Quest! We heard about it
all the way here in Harth.  Ya did good, ya big luggamajug!
Or should I say "luggama-THUG"?! Heh!
Heh... Well, they can't all be gems.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC022 (Harth Armory).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC022 (Harth Armory).txt
SIZE: 5458 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:28:14
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 8060492778b895a6f50d2647194b20be9c6ef3a944830cff8701c915f2a15a39
================================================================================

﻿Now, feast those peepers on the goods!  See ya when I see ya. Aw, just leave me be...
If I can't work, I may as well just
blend into the scenery...*yawn* Well, at least I can sell. You here to
look at some weapons? I just got some new
beauts in stock. A little flash of zenny might reinvigorate
my pulse... Or convince me to fake it. Don't tell me YOU'RE the one who got rid
of that pesky Tetsucabra?  Wow! In that case, let us Troverians
help with whatever ya need, ship included! While you're here, how about buyin'
something? I just got in some real
winners. They'll look great on ya, heh!  Hey! Hunter! The Chief was lookin'
for ya. Skedaddle on over to see him!  That there is a fine ship, if I'm allowed
to gloat a little. A worthy ship for a
worthy Caravan!  You take care of the lil'un for us. She's all we've got, so keep her safe!
Or I'll... Or I'll... *bawl* Hunter, Hunter! Thanks for lookin'
after the lil'un for us, now and always! And by "always," I basically mean for
the rest of time. No pressure!  Nice going, Hunter! That's one heckuva
airship ya got there! The sky's the
limit now! Take good care of the lil'un while you
zig and zag your way into history.
We'll be here consoling the Chief.  Hey! Y'ever heard of Knockback Protection?
It stops wind and small attacks from pushin'
ya around! Hello, Great Sword attacks!  You can't block with the Long Sword, but
you CAN evade and then lunge in close.
We're talkin' fancy footwork, kid.  When usin' the Sword & Shield, you can
attack with the Shield too. Bonk a monster
on the head to Stun it! Ya know, if you charge the gauge while in
the Dual Blades's Demon Mode, you can
stay in a demon-like state AFTER it runs out! Know about the Hammer's Charged
Attack Lv.2? Its vertical reach is perfect
for monsters with heads in high places!  Build a melody while attackin', then wait
for a chance to Perform! That right
there is Hunting Horn Handlin' 101. Ever seen a proper Lance charge?
Ya dash till your Stamina runs out -- and
ain't nothin' stops that Finishing Blow! Gunlance shells deal a fixed amount
of damage to monsters with every shot. That
includes tough parts of the suckers, too! The Switch Axe can morph between Axe and
Sword modes. Folks used to call it a
technological marvel! *whistle* Still is. The Charge Blade's standout feature is
its phial attacks! Land sword hits to charge
the phials, then unleash them in Axe Mode!  Have ya been collecting Extracts using
your Kinsects? Different monster parts
yield different Extract effects!  The Light Bowgun might not win any damage
contests, but dang if you don't move fast!
Step right up into that monster's grill! When you use the Heavy Bowgun's Crouching
Fire, you're stuck in one place -- but
you can pop off multiple rounds in a row.  The arrows from your Bow have different
effects depending on the charge level.
Plus, you can practically run with it drawn! The Chief's hammer belonged to his dear
departed wife. He cared about that
thing more than life itself. And now that it's broken... *snivel*
I just don't know what he's gonna do...
Waaaah! *bawl* Well, if it ain't the strappin' hunter
that chased off that Tetsucabra!
Thanks a ton! Now we can head back in and gather those
materials we need for the hammer.  Sure hope there aren't any more monsters
down there. 'Specially a Gravios...
Those things are the WORST.  Elder dragon, shmelder dragon!
I ain't afraid.  We Troverians may be short, but we
always, ALWAYS stand tall. Ha ha!  Hey, Hunter! They say you whacked that
monster that was blockin' our way to the
materials we need.  Everybody's down there mining away now.
We'll keep at it while you go build up
your HR. Have you tried the Light Bowgun yet?
You can fire a Recov S at comrades to
heal 'em up, right as rain.  Blegh... I don't know what it is, but...
I don't wanna do nothin' today.  The pounding of the hammer is like my
heartbeat -- and right now, my heart's
stopped. I'm under lethargiac arrest...  I sure do miss the lava... That bright,
red, beautiful lava...*yawn*  Well, at least I can sell. You here to
look at some weapons? I just got some new
beauts in stock. A little flash of zenny might reinvigorate
my pulse... Or convince me to fake it. *Sob, sniff* Hey, you! Yeah, you!
You better not let anything happen to
the lil'un! *sniff* She's all we've got! Okay, well, no she
ain't, but you gotta understand this
is one of them emotional moments...  I got a whole bunch of new equipment
in stock, so suit up and keep her safe!
Or I'll... Or I'll... *bawl* Hey, you! Yeah, you!
How's the lil'un holdin' up? I got a whole bunch of new equipment
in stock, so feast those peepers on
the goods! Yahoo! The lil'un outdid herself!
That new hammer is even better than the
one the Chief's old lady left him!  The lil'un has gotten so big and smart.
I'll have to start callin' her the
"big'n'smart'un." Yeah... Actually, no.  *Sniff* Thanks, Hunter. This is such an
emotional moment I forget to express my
gratitude.  If you hadn't whacked that Teostra,
we wouldn't have our hammer and the lil'un
wouldn'ta had her chance to shine. *sniff* Hey, you! Yeah, you!
I hear the head of your Caravan dished
out a rock-hard Quest for ya, eh? But you cut through it chop-chop,
didn't ya? That's really something! I bet the Caravaneer knew a superstar
like you would do it all along. He's got
a lot of faith in ya, I hear.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC023 (Harth Relic Polisher).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC023 (Harth Relic Polisher).txt
SIZE: 5965 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:28:26
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0d5fa394d600bcc87f867542b599eebfe59fdc2e0d86d518d22f9ffd7d4f0136
================================================================================

﻿Time for some abolishing! Come again, ya big luggamajug!  Huh? Hold yer Popos...
Your Item Box is full! Where do you expect me to unload your
goods? Come back once it's cleaned up.  Hurrr...hurrr... Bring me your  Relics  ...
The ole Rust Abolisher will... What do
I do again? Right, polish... Ugh... I feel like all the life has
been sucked right out of me...  That ijit monster in the mines...
Why won't the big luggamajug just...
get lost...ugh.  I can't even get angry proper...
Nuts.  The lil'un's all yours now! Don't worry.
We taught her all the basics, and trust
me, she's got supreme talent!  Need a little Troverian wizardry? No?
Then get flying, ya big luggamajug! It'll all pan out. No worries!
Just take to the skies, and you'll find
everything you're looking for. Hur hur!  Ya can't equip Relics the way they are.
That's where the Antiquary comes in!  Just let me use Abrasives to  polish  
that Relic, and it'll be ready for use!  You can find Abrasives during
Guild Quests. Hur hur!  Ever found you don't need one of the
Relics I polished for ya? 'Course ya have!
Hur hur!  Well, just bring 'em to me. I'll go
ahead and recycle them so you can get
some Caravan Points and items back! You know about Slots yet? Those are the
holes ya stick Decorations in!  Decorations are the lil'un's specialty,
not mine. But thanks to her help, I've
really gotten the hang of it. Hur hur! Relics come in a few different
flavors. But I can handle every variety,
no problem! Hur hur!  Wondering where to find Relics?
No problem! Just scavenge around while
doing Guild Quests or Expeditions! Abrasives come in a few varieties.
There's regular old Abrasives, then
Quality Abrasives and Awesome Abrasives. Just so ya know, different Relics may
require different kinds of Abrasives. You can't really tell what kind of weapon
or armor a Relic used to be just
by looking.  Once ya finish a Quest and get it appraised,
though, you should get a feel for its
capabilities.  High-level Guild Quests generally turn
up rarer Relics. Go on as many Guild Quests as you can
and see if you can find the perfect one
for you. Hur hur! Each Relic has a unique Defense
bonus and Slot count. It all comes down to luck, so here's
hopin' fortune is on your side. Hur hur! Did ya know you can upgrade a Relic
by using Armor Spheres and Caravan
Points? Yup! Weapons get stronger and armor gets
tougher with each level!  And I'm proud to say that only the Rust
Abolisher here can perform this extremely
useful service! Drop by any time. The art of Relic-polishing originated
right here in Harth.  We picked up forging from Wyverian
craftsmen long, long, looong ago.  I s'pose that somewhere in the passing
of the centuries the Troverians
sorta added a few tricks of our own. You may already know, but some Skills
really fit the bill when you're out
hunting in numbers. Plan ahead, now!  Hur hur hur! Well met, Hunter!
Thanks to you, the ole Rust Abolisher is
back in business and raring to go!  This here is the  Antiquary . Troverians have plied this trade for
generations. You won't find it anywhere
but right here in Harth! So, have ya got one? You know, a  Relic ?
You've GOT to have at least one, right? Maybe it turned up during an Expedition
or on a Guild Quest. But ya can't
equip Relics the way they are.  And that's where the Antiquary
comes in. Just let me  polish   that Relic,
and it'll be ready for use!  To polish, I need special materials
called  Abrasives . Abrasives turn up during
Guild Quests, too. If any of that sailed over your head,
study up by checking  Help   in the
upper left corner of the Touch Screen.  I'll give ya an Abrasive to get ya
started, so stand back and watch
the Abolisher polish! Hur hur hur! How fare ya, Hunter?
And how's that cook of yours? ...I can still taste that delicious meal.
One bite was all it took to completely
forget I was all zonked out before!  Actually, the cook asked me a favor.
He wants to add dairy products to his
lineup and I'm not too proud to help!  Just take down two Nerscylla
and I'll personally make it so he'll have
all the fresh dairy products he needs! I put a Quest in with the green miss.
It's called   " Hanging by a Thread ."  Now get out there and milk this
opportunity. I dairy ya! Hur hur hur! Hur hur hur! How 'bout that airship?
Who wouldn't love one of THOSE?  By the way, have you ever considered
going on a Harvest Tour?
Who wouldn't love one of THOSE? That's why I set you up with a little
tour package myself. It's the least
I can do for the lil'un's caretaker!  See the green miss and ask for a Quest
called   " Harvest Tour: Volcanic Hollow ."  And bon voyage! Hur hur hur! Thanks for hunting that
Teostra! The lil'un made a splendid hammer with
your help. It might even be better than
the one the Chief's old lady made! Ain't no limit to a kid's potential,
I tell ya. They can do anything -- even
leave their parents in the dust! Hur hur hur! I heard the news!
You completed the Caravaneer's
Challenge, didn't you?  I'm so danged moved I need to polish
some weapons and armor! Bring 'em on,
Hunter! Line 'em up for abolishing!  Hur hur hur! Is it true?
They say you took down that
Ukanlos. Unbelievable!  That means you can go on G-rank
Expeditions now, huh?
Well, don't get TOO confident.  G-rank Expeditions are
no Harvest Tour. You'll run into monsters
that'll scare the vambraces off you! But you know what dangerous monsters
means, don't ya? 'Course ya do, ya big
luggamajug! It means rare Relics
just waitin' to be snatched up!  Naturally, to polish rare Relics
you need a special kind of Abrasive. I bet you can find some on G-rank
Expeditions or high level
Guild Quests. And don't forget about recycling!
You can trade in polished equipment
for Caravan Points and materials. Whew, all this polishing talk got me worked
up. Get out there and bring me back
some rust to abolish! Hur hur!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC024 (Stoked Troverian).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC024 (Stoked Troverian).txt
SIZE: 6170 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:28:38
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 744c3d282b50823cd8710eb9f00521ecb482440bcaec5f2f0b9cfe2f4f451d17
================================================================================

﻿Ahh... Nothing like a cool patch
of earth... Who needs to work? Certainly
not me... *Sigh* If someone would get rid of that
monster in the mines...I might be able
to get a little more stoked... If that thing can stomp out the work
ethic of a Troverian...then it must
really be... Really be...  I'll get back to you about that...
Hrmm.  Fie-ho! Let's get diggin'!
Diggin' diggin' diggin' diggin' HOO! When that Tetsucabra crashed the mines,
I thought it was all over, but not now!
Not anymore, thanks to you! HOO!  Now we just need the lava to start
flowin' again, and then I'll really,
REALLY be stoked! Fie-ho, Hunter! We figured out what's
puttin' the stranglehold on our lava
lifeline!  Go talk to the Chief if you want to get
the down-low! Fie-ho! So it was a Nerscylla that
was gummin' up the lava works! HOO! I might've known! That big
luggamajug! I need to go MINE somethin' to blow off
all this steam! Fie-ho! If anyone can stop the
Nerscylla, I wager it's that
green miss behind the counter.  Just look at her! She's wearin' glasses!
...She's our only hope!  ...Huh? "What am I talking about"?
C'mon, read between the lines!
Glasses and sunlight equals one dead spider!  Fie-ho, Hunter! About that Street Cook
of yours...  Did you know he made a special meal to
put a little pep back in me and the
brothers' step?  A shame we were already better before
he could finish cookin'...  But it's the thought that counts, yessir.
Tell him we said thanks!  ..."Say it yourself"? HOO! Are you
crazy, ya big luggamajug?  I'd be way too embarrassed to say
something that mushy! Fie-ho! How was your little sea voyage? What? You ran into a monster? HOO!
I bet you were fine, ya big luggamajug!  Between you and the Arluq, there's no
danger than can keep you down for long! Fie-ho! If it ain't the hunter lookin'
after the lil'un!  I heard about your airship. HOO!
Flying through the air...that's a marvel
us Troverians can only dream of.  We're all too heavy! If we got onboard
you'd never be able to get the thing to
take off! Heh heh. Will ya take the lil'un to Cathar
for us, Hunter? Safely, of course -- or else you'll
be seein' the business end of my
Pickaxe! HOO!  Fie-ho, Hunter!
Good to see, good to see!
The lil'un looks well.  Looks like we entrusted her to the right
group of folks, yessir. HOO! Have ya ever mined a Mystery Charm or
Rustshard before? Get 'em appraised and you might have a
real rarity of a weapon or Talisman on
your hands. HOO!  Fie-ho, there! Got any Armor Spheres?
They're great for strengthening other
materials.  If I were you, I'd use one to upgrade
my armor! Fie-ho! I'm waiting to hear back on this
Mystery Charm I'm gettin' appraised,
and let me tell ya... There ain't much in the world that's
more excitin'! I'm like a kid the mornin'
of his birthday! Heh heh.  Ya know, Hunter, Decorations aren't just
for activatin' the Skills ya want. They're also helpful for SUPPRESSIN'
the Skills ya DON'T want. HOO!
Fascinating things, Decorations are...  Hunter, did ya know that some Talismans
have Slots in 'em?  When ya get exactly the Talisman ya
need AND it's got Slots, it makes ya
want to just get up and DANCE! HOO!  Fie-ho there! Ever heard of the
legendary Slickaxe? It's supposed to be a teensy-weensy
little pickaxe. You can't use it for
mining. But! They say it's got some kind of super
secret power... I sure would like to try
one out! Or even just SEE one!  Fie-ho-NO! The Chief's beloved hammer
went kaput! Snapped right in two! HOO!  Poor guy. If my favorite Pickaxe ever
snapped on me, I'd bawl myself
right out! *sniff* Fie-ho! The Chief's old lady was quite
the Troverian, ya know.  She made the finest, most delicate
weapons, but they were made to last!
We're talkin' top-grade toughness!  And she had a knack for Decorations, too.
The Chief and us males never did wrap
our heads around it the way she did.  Fie-ho, Hunter! Don't think you're the
only one workin' hard! Me and the brothers'll tangle with this
boulder here while you take out that
baddie. We'll be done when you are!  Fie-ho! Thanks for helpin' the li'un out!
Seems like you're always a little stronger
than the last time I saw ya. I s'pose we know who to go to if we ever
need a favor. HOO! Ya got to love the Gathering Hall.  Whether you're with old companions or new,
nothin' beats the smiles when ya toast to
a hunt well hunted. Or so I hear!  Fie-ho! Fie-ho-HOO!
Where'd all this energy come from?
I'm baaack!  I'm stoked again! We're all stoked!
Are you stoked, Hunter? YOU SHOULD BE!  You see a Pickaxe lyin' around anywhere?
If ya do, it's all yours. Take it! Nothing gets ya stoked like a Pickaxe,
I tell ya. Nothin'!  By the way, Hunter, I've been thinkin',
and in my mind, you deserve a little
thank-you gift.  How'd ya like to be able to gather all
you want in the Sunken Hollow? You'd
love it, right? Well, I filed a Quest with the green miss
called  " Harvest Tour: Sunken Hollow ."  Now you can dash around the
Sunken Hollow and gather till those
beefy arms fall right off! HOO! Fie-ho, Hunter! Mind if I bother ya
with something? I had this job that needed doin'
yesterday, but I bumped into a spot
of trouble. I need more  Coal  . You've probably noticed that the Volcanic
Hollow is drippin' with nasties.  Think you could go there and  deliver
some Coal  for me? I'm beggin' ya!  I talked with the green miss and filed a
Quest:   " Energy Crisis ."  Don't forget to bring a Pickaxe! Feel free
to grab any you find lyin' around. Hunter! Ya did it!
You delivered the Coal! HOO! Thanks! I might just finish my work in time
after all. Shucks... You're a life-saver! Fie-ho! The Chief is back in action!
Ya-HOOOOO! Thanks for demolishin' that
Teostra, Hunter! I saw the
whole thing... HOO! Color me inspired! Anyway, you can see we're back at full
tilt now.  Feel free to grab one of those Pickaxes
that are lyin' around. Maybe it'll help
you get stoked up, too! Fie-ho, Hunter! I heard the news! You burned through that Caravaneer's
Challenge Quest like it was NOTHIN'! Nothin' at all! You really
are the best in the biz, aren't ya?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC025 (Cheerful Troverian).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC025 (Cheerful Troverian).txt
SIZE: 7082 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:28:50
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 95942a4a8f632bcf425c98443cc12bc66ea69d15f5663af9e54c60cd681efc6b
================================================================================

﻿Ugh...ahh...hrrm... Right.  I know I'm s'posed to be doin' something,
but uh...yeah...hmm...  Eh, probably doesn't matter. Nope...  I sure miss that swing o' the hammer.
Made me want to get out there and...
and mine and stuff...  But I guess that's all over.
The Troverian race has dug its
last tunnel... *sigh* At least I get to sleep through my
extinction... Probably gonna be boring
anyway... Thanks for hunting that Tetsucabra
for us.  You're just like an angel, ya know that?
And those chunks of monster stuck in your
hair are like a halo!  Heya! Hunter! We FINALLY know what's
gunking up the lava! Go talk to the Chief and he'll fill
ya in. That ship of yours might not be a
pipe dream after all!  Really? You're gonna go hunt that
Nerscylla for us? Shucks...
I don't know what to say. You really are an angel, ya know that?
An angel with monster bits crusting
in your locks like the morning dew!  Oh, you want to mess with me,
Nerscylla? Then bring it on,
ya stupid luggamajug!  ...Oh heya. I was just pretending I
was you. Ain't no way I'M gonna try and
fight that thing! Got any spectacles, Hunter? You should bring some with you.
Maybe you can borrow a pair from the
green miss over there. After all, ya can't hunt spiders without
spectacles! Everybody knows that!  Watch out for the lil'un, Hunter.
We always figured she would leave us one
day, what with her not bein' a Troverian.  But the Chief doesn't want her goin' back
to her own village. See? He looks ready
to poison ya in your sleep. Har!  What's eatin' ya, Hunter? ...Huh?
Ya got attacked by a terrible monster
out at sea? Oh no!! What if it strikes here next?
I'd better pack my things in case we
have to flee! Let's see... Should I take this rock?! Hmm, no.
...But what else do I even own?  Heya! You guys again? I hear you're
buildin' an airship? Ha! Well,
make yourselves at home. We'll set ya up.  After all, we're always thrilled to have
a crack at something sizeable, and that
seems to be all you ever make! Plus, we owe ya for takin' care of the
lil'un... Trust me, we'll give this
project our all! Whew... You really are something else.
I can't believe you actually built
yourselves an airship!  But then, I'd expect as much from our
guardian angel. Now sprout those angel wings
and take our lil'un out there
to the world beyond the sky. Is the lil'un pullin' her weight?
Glad to hear it, heh heh. I bet she's happy to swing her hammer
side by side with a Wyverian! They're
all she ever talked about.  Lots of hunters drop by our village.
Sure, some are after the usual crafting
and upkeep...  But where we really shine is with
polishing Relics! It's a Troverian
tradition. Our race first learned the way of the
forge from a Wyverian. Then we sort of
tweaked it -- made it our own, y'see.  But that's the way with technology, if
y'ask me. It's one big lens that shows
different things based on who's lookin'.  You can tell a lot about a hunter by
his or her weapon. Take the Commander
of the Ace Hunters, for example. I bet he sharpens those blades of his
three times an hour. I can just picture
him hunched over, whetting himself silly! Once you're a vet like the Ace Hunters,
you sort of settle into a certain weapon
and armor -- develop your own style. Take the Ace Lancer. He's practically a
HUMAN Lance. He handles that thing like
a fifth limb. The Ace Gunner sure does love her Bowgun.
The way she takes care of it, you'd think
it was some kind of pet!  'Course, weaponsmiths like us ought to
thank her! We always appreciate when our
work goes to a good home. His equipment changed again?
I'm talkin' about the Ace Cadet... I think he's shouldered pretty much
the whole gamut of weapons... Every day
it's something different! *sigh*  Still, the weapons come back with nary
a scratch, so the luggamajug must know
what he's doin'. Impressive, really!  Heya! Did ya hear the awful news?
The Chief's hammer broke! Arrgh!  Ain't no worse feeling than breakin'
something ya really care about.  It's like you're watching all the
memories that go with it get smashed,
too. Just plain heartbreaking.  People who say "it's just stuff"
don't know what they're talkin' about. Hey, I hear ya took down the
Tetsucabra for us. We still owe
ya big for that! And we're about to owe ya for one
more... Now the mine's been overrun by
a Gravios. I'm startin' to think we'll never make
the Chief a new hammer. Shucks...  Good grief... Now we're up against an
elder dragon?! I swear, if we don't have
the most abysmal luck. Still, the lil'un insists everything
will work out with you callin' the
shots, and I believe her. After all, you're our guardian angel.
The sky's the limit, right? Heya, Hunter! Thanks for helpin' us
see "Operation Pophammer" all the way
through to the end! We'll get right to work on gatherin'
those hammer materials. You work on
boostin' that HR of yours! Heya, Hunter. Have you been doin' the
transport Quests at the Gathering Hall? They're tough to complete solo, but I
bet they'd be a blast in a group. I bet you think I'm a miner. Since I'm a
Troverian, I must schlep rocks around all
the time. Is that it? Huh? Is it?  WRONG! Ya big luggamajug!
I only do this to keep my muscles in
shape for my real job... Egg delivery! That's right. I got the lowdown from
our boyo in Val Habar. I hear
you've got a bright future.  The question is, can those wonder-arms
of yours handle an   Herbivore Egg ?
Hmm?  Of course, I'll make it worth your while.
Deliver on this, and I'll talk to the
Don to see if he'll make you a capo!  You ain't gonna pass up a chance at
MANAGEMENT, are ya? Are ya? Huh?  Now go talk to the Guildmarm and sign up
for  " Egg-straction: Herbivores ."  And don't tell nobody... Nobody!
I'm tryin' to be incognito here. Psst! Yeah, you! I hear you delivered
the thing. Ya know, the egg?
The  Herbivore Egg ! I wish I knew what the opposite of
butterfingers was, because...because
THAT is what you are. The Don was mighty impressed when I told
him how ya did. Said he wants to see ya. More importantly, he made you a capo.
You're a cheese now! ...Not the big cheese,
but like a medium kind of cheese. Anyway, you've got more cheese content
than I do, bub. Way to show ME up! But I digress. This calls for a song...
Hey! Wait! Where ya going? We haven't
sung the syndicate anthem yet!  Heya! Thanks to you, the Chief has got
a brand-spankin'-new hammer! You shoulda
seen him tear the wrappin' paper off! It's been ages since I've seen him with
tears that joyful in his eyes.  Maybe the last time was when the lil'un
started callin' him "Pop."  The Chief burst into all kinds of manly
tears when he heard that. Ahh, those
were the days! Heya, look at you! Here's the champ who
knocked out the Caravaneer's
Challenge! Ya know, I had my doubts at first when
the lil'un said she was joinin' your merry
little band. I'll admit that. But not anymore! Thanks to you, the whole
world is her Sushifish! She's lucky to have
you, and I think she knows it, too.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC026 (Mister Quippit).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC026 (Mister Quippit).txt
SIZE: 4693 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:29:16
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: d186a989464728abf571fc5373f0995c02fc24a373835800cf459169dc324dc7
================================================================================

﻿Ah! Pardon me, Hunter, but do you know
what's gotten into the villagers here? I was hoping to get this  Relic  polished
so I could quip it, but everyone
has gone floppier than a soggy scabbard. What in the blazes happened here? And why
is the human girl over there the only one
not affected? Oh! Heading out to sea? Safe journey,
and may you be spared any harassment from
the myriad horrible monsters out there. Oh! Greetings, friend. I trust you had
a comfortable voyage aboard that whale-
ship of yours? Take me along next time! I could do for
a monster-a-mano clash out there above
the waves. Ha ha ha! Oh! Heading out to sky? Safe journey,
safe journey. ...W-aait a second! "Sky"?! Your ship
can FLY? How did you manage that?!  You're alive? I-I mean, you're alive!
Wonderful! To be honest, I thought you'd
gone to that hunting ground in the sky...  Is it true you hunted a Tetsucabra?
What weapon did you quip? How did you deal with that rock-hard jaw?
What I'd give to quip what you quipped... Hrrba hrrba... I'm still dizzy...
On a hunt the other day, I got hit by
a monster's flash.  If only I had known...
I would've quipped a weapon
with blocking abilities... Oof... That blasted Rhenoplos and
it's blasted charge attack! Smacked me
right in the derrière, it did. I was looking the wrong way and didn't
notice it coming at me from far away.
...I wonder if they sell butt armor. I had a passionate conversation with my
hunting group the other day about which
weapon is best for Stunning monsters. A Hammer? A Hunting Horn, perhaps?
A Charge Blade with an Impact phial?
And let's not forget Bowguns with Crag S. Did you really hunt a Nerscylla?
...Curses! You beat me to it!  It might have looked like I was just
pacing here anxiously, but I was planning.
PLANNING, I tell you. I had already bought my Energy Drinks and
Antidotes. I just took too long settling
on which quippings to quip...  Tell me, friend. When you forge weapons,
do you focus primarily on Sharpness?
Attack? Element? Appearance?  ...I see. Fascinating! I shall take your
opinion under consideration before
deciding on my own quippings. Hmm? What do I focus on when I forge
my armor? Well, Defense and Resistances
are obviously important... But you can't forget about Slot count, either.
To be honest, when I visit the Smithy, I end
up leaving an un-quipped, confused mess!  So, have you been using Equipment Sets?
You can use them to store and recall your
favorite weapon and armor setups. Equipment Sets also remember your
Decorations and Talismans, which is great
for quippaholics like me. Ha ha ha! Of course, if you're like me, you'll fill
your Equipment Sets up so fast that you
won't have room to store any more...  Oh! Greetings, friend. It sounds like the
villagers here are in quite the sticky
pickle!  Apparently, when they went to gather
materials for some kind of hammer, they
bumped into a dangerous monster. Perhaps I'll go handle this menace
myself...if I can decide which quippings
to quip. What would you take along? What? You hunted the monster stopping
the diggers from gathering their hammer
materials? ...Curses! You beat me to it!  I had JUST finished my preparations and
was about to head for the Departure Gate.
But I guess I can't go now! Ha ha...  Well, I suppose I could always work on
increasing my HR. Self-improvement is my
middle name!  A female will be joining me on my next
hunt. Do you know what quippings females
like best? I need to dress sharp! Boy, I really don't know what to do.
What should I quip? Do you know? The villagers here asked me to eradicate
an Ioprey. But what are the
best quippings for the job?  Should I use armor that negates Poison?
Which weapon element works best? I can't
WAIT to bust open my extensive wardrobe. ...Oh, you want to take a crack at the
hunt? Well, go ahead. I'll catch up once
I figure all this out.  I filed a Quest with your Guildmarm
called  " Learning Experience "...  You know, just for the sake of being
thorough. Not because I need you to do
it for me.  Whoa, really? You went out there and
eliminated the Ioprey? Already?! But I hadn't even settled on a helmet yet!
How did you make your mind up so quickly?! Oh! Greetings, Hunter! Is what they
say true? I hear you went off and did some sort of
impossible Quest while I was here fussing
over fashion. *sigh* I'm beginning to think that MAYBE there's
a valuable lesson to be learned here about
seizing the day or something.  Well, anyway... Congratulations.
Clearly I need to up my game!  But what are the best quippings for
upping one's game? I'd better stay
put a while longer and figure it out...



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC030 (Cheeko Chief).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC030 (Cheeko Chief).txt
SIZE: 8307 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:29:30
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 6ba73be3c9adf3cf354077e3ff4545cdeb976704b5ef25f2bbe79d79e1070717
================================================================================

﻿Goodness gravy, I sure am glad you and
that whale-ship of yours pulled through. On the isle just off the beach, you will
find a young Felyne miss who is determined
to protect our village. Be a dear and see what she has to say,
will you?  This is Cheeko Sands. There's little
to see here besides me and Felynes, but
it's home sweet home.  It's so rare we have visitors, so please,
stretch your legs and relax for a spell.  I'm sure the Headwhiskress would be
delighted to have a hunter around for a
while. That's the young miss I mentioned. Have you spoken with her yet? You poor things had the most rotten luck.
For shipgoers, a chance encounter with a
monster can be fatal.  But thanks to you, your caravan is safe.
That's something to be proud of. That Arluq of yours deserves a pat on
the back, too, for keeping herself afloat!  The village of Cathar was built on the
tallest of mountaintops. Not even the
finest ship can take you up there. Even if you brought your ship into the
nearest harbor, you'd have countless
roads and a grueling climb ahead of you.  My word, those sturdy-looking hunters
didn't stick around long.
...Hmm, friends of yours, I take it?  Oh, before I forget. Thank you kindly for
helping out the Wild Palico.  The Headwhiskress was so happy. I'm sure
she'd love to thank you, so why not drop
by Sunsnug Isle?  Oh! Good day, Hunter. The Meownster Hunters
made it to Sunsnug Isle safe and sound,
so scurry along and pay them a visit. All of Cheeko will work together to
whisker up those ingredients. You're in
for a real treat! Now, it's time for you to show
that Najarala what's what. The Najarala is a clever and
cunning customer. It uses loud noises to
corner its prey. Oh, your poor ears...  You did it, Hunter!
You chased away the Najarala!
Oh, bless your little heart!  So did you drop by the kitchen? What do
you think?  That cuisinier of yours looked like he
lost all nine lives and went straight
to heaven. I think he wants to show off. What's gotten into the Caravaneer, I
wonder? He looks white as a sheet... Although you'd hardly know it the way he
has his face buried in that letter.
I hope it's not bad news...  When you take to gazing at the ocean all
day the way I do, the waves start to tell
you what they're up to.  I suppose it's like they're singing their
own little song. It's a faint but lovely
little ditty.  Just the kind of toe-tapper to help an
old woman forget the wounds in her heart.  Lately, large monsters have started
to prowl close to the village.  I suppose we're lucky you washed
up when you did. Thank you.  Now and then, cargo plucked by the
waves from unsuspecting seafarers
washes up on the Sands.  You'd be amazed at what turns up;
sometimes we salvage lovely bowls or
other fine crafts. Whenever I shake the sand off and give
one of those treasures a good washing,
the whole world starts to feel right. Their artistry reaches right into my heart
and makes me smile a kind of smile that
never reached my face when I was younger.  Here's a thought to take with you, Hunter:  As ships broken at the bottom of the sea
become home to fish, perhaps this broken
ship here will become home to something too.  You know, I washed up in this village
too. It was long, long ago, when my
own ship was dashed apart.  I was lucky to escape with my life, but
as you can see my ship was damaged
beyond repair. In the end, the sensible thing to do was
to just start a new life here with my
Felyne crew. Did you notice the Sword enshrined out
there on the Isle? That was my husband's.  It's all I have left of him after our
ship was wrecked... He never made it to
the Sands with the rest of us.  But I imagine he'll stroll in one day
soon, and we'll have quite a laugh when
we trade stories! Hoo hoo.  Good day, Hunter. Fine weather we're
having. Tell me, have you learned your way
around our hunting grounds? My husband never used a map during hunts.
Even at sea, he could find his bearings
using just the scent of the trade winds.  So why do you suppose he's having such a
hard time finding one goshforsaken beach
village? It's odd, I tell you...  That Wycoon of yours is such a character.
The stories he tells! Hoo hoo.  I used to be in the trading business myself,
you know. I sailed a grand ship with
these Felynes as my crew. Ah, but that was another life -- one
that's been collecting dust for some time. The little white Palico's father was a
fearless Felyne. He used to wear the most lovely medal
which was awarded only to the bravest in
the land.  If you ask me, little Whitescruff can
stay a coward. I love him to bits just
the way he is. But if he ever decides he wants to
conquer his fears, then I'll be at the
front of the crowd cheering him on. There's no rush. Change happens when
it wants to happen.  No hero will come along to chase away the
phantoms in our hearts. We have to
conquer them ourselves.  Not everyone can do it. But whether
someone can or can't, I'll love them just
the same. Goodness me. Where does little Whitescruff
think he's scampering off to?  Ohh... So he's finally ready to muster
up some courage. Good for him. Courage always finds you in the end;
it is like the morning sun rising
over a dark sea. There's a phantom eating away at little
Whitescruff. It's got a strong hold on
his heart. And don't think I don't understand what
that feels like, because I do.  The same monster still casts a shadow
over my heart, too -- ever since the day
it sank my ship. I hear your show of courage inspired
little Whitescruff. You did a wonderful
thing, and I'm proud of you both.  You should have heard him go on and on
about your bravery! It was just precious.  He was so excited! I think he wants to
see some more courage -- this time, the
courage to better yourself.  My husband often went hunting with
friends. He had so many! How I miss
those days. Promise you'll be careful. Thank you so much for giving your time
to the Headwhiskress.  She was so happy! I can't remember the
last time I've seen her beam like that.  I'd like to repay you somehow, so I
thought long and hard... How about this?  Why don't I arrange to have   better
ingredients   delivered to the Street Cook's
kitchen? Would you like that? While I'm at it, I'll go ahead and  expand
the kitchen  , too. It's the least I can do. Unfortunately, when I sent some of the
crew to fetch the ingredients, they ran
into a monster called the  Najarala  . The Najarala is a clever and cunning
customer. My Felynes and I will have a
hard time getting rid of it.  But perhaps you could hunt it for us...
Would that be a bother? If you manage to chase off the
Najarala, I'll see you get the
ingredients and a bigger kitchen. Oh, Hunter! Just marvelous. Thank you
for hunting that Najarala!  I'm happy to say we were able to deliver
those ingredients to the Street Cook.  And with a little Felyne elbow grease,
we managed to spruce up your kitchen
quite a bit, too. Do you like it? You're welcome in our village whenever
you feel like taking a load off.
...Hmm? Wait just a moment. Is that   Caravaneer   of yours all right?
Look at him. He's white as a sheet.  Although you'd hardly know it the way he
has his face buried in that letter.
I hope he hasn't received bad news...  Oh... Good day, Hunter. *sigh*  Forgive me. It's just...that gleam in your
eyes reminds me so much of my husband. He would look at me like that whenever
he returned from the hunt. Taking the time to teach little
Whitescruff about bravery was an act of
valor all in itself.  If you can promise to keep a little
secret -- you inspired even me. I think you should take Whitescruff
with you. And if his courage ever starts
to falter, you give him a talking to.  Hoo hoo. Today's a good day for new
beginnings. Just look at this weather!  The sun will have to go down eventually,
but think of all you can accomplish
before it touches down in those waters.  Sugar on toast, Hunter! Can I see that
medal of yours?  I understand you completed a very
difficult Quest to get this.  ...Oh my goodness. It's lovely!
Look how it shines, like the sun coming
up over the water...  Courage always finds you in the end;
it is like the morning sun rising
over a dark sea.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC031 (Cheeko Merchant).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC031 (Cheeko Merchant).txt
SIZE: 4476 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:32:04
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 05b6f7507fc8f2cf55f174d9c657b07e27e31a7086b35d0223a47b4279efb9fe
================================================================================

﻿So, what can I purrvide you with today? See you soon, nya!  Now then... Half off today, meow! Mew there! Welcome to the Cheeko Meowket!
What can I get for you today? I run the best Meowket in Cheeko Sands --
mainly beclaws I'm the only Meowket in
Cheeko Sands. Step right up, nya!  You know, the young customer over there
just purrchased a Barrel Bomb L, meow.  I noticed he caught a Scatterfish as well.
He meowst be planning to combine-up
some kind of potent explosive, nya!  Don't forget to pack some Hot Drinks if
you're going to the Frozen Seaway.
They'll keep you nice and toasty, nya? To detonate a Barrel Bomb L, you can fire
a Bow or Bowgun from a distance, or even
just throw a Stone, meow.  Just be careful not to kick it if you
don't want to get blasted halfway aclaws
creation! Myeh heh.  If you're heading to the Primal Forest,
don't forget to purrchase some Deodorant. Nothing is meowre mortifying than getting
farted on by a Conga. If smells so bad you
won't even be able to eat! Nyagh...  Did you hear that blast of a Health Horn
earlier, meow? The purrformer didn't get all the notes
right, but the Horn still healed like it
was supposed to. What a surpurrise!  Aren't Cleansers great, meow? Purr it
onto any ice that's formed on your body,
and KA-BAM! It blows that ice right off! ...Wait a second, nya. "KA-BAM"?
Is this stuff really safe? ...Uh, I-I
mean, of course it's safe, meow! Meow about that Max Potion?
Purr-etty special, am I right?  Not only does it give your overall
Health a, uhh, "healthy" boost, it also
fully heals you in the purr-ocess! Now that's quality service -- right up
there with my Meowket, nya ha! Insects in your hair? Never fear, meow!
A Poison Smoke Bomb will have any pest
gagging its little pest lungs out! If you're squeamish about tiny little
insect bodies going belly up and doing the
twitchity-twitch, skip this item, nya? There's meowthing quite like a Paw Pass
Ticket! It'll have Felynes there in a
flash to cart your carcass away, nya. ...Oh. Don't worry. I was using "carcass"
meowtaphorically, of course.  Earlier, I combined up a Farcaster and
tried it out, meow.  There was this puff of green smoke, and
then...and then...! I found meowself back
at camp. Talk about su-purr-natural!  How about that Demondrug? One bottle
jacks your Attack right up, nya? And don't even get me started on the
Mega Demondrug. Items that start with
Mega totally rock, man. I mean, "meow."  How about that Armorskin? One bottle
jacks your Defense right up, nya?  And don't even get me started on the
Mega Armorskin. Items that start with
Mega totally rock, man. I mean, "meow."  Mewww, I really blew it. I was so hungry
that I ate some meat I picked up off the
ground...and it was Tinged Meat, nyagh! You can't tell from the way I'm calmly
standing here, but my insides are STILL
paralyzed, meow... Mew there! You see that white Palico?
He and the Headwhiskress had this big
argument, nya?  I think she's fed up with him sitting
around with his tail purrtween his legs.  But all she managed to do was knock a
little more courage out of the critter.
What a mess, meow...  Mew there! It sounds like our white
Palico pal has finally worked up the
courage to face that meownster.  All he needs now is for you to be his
role model and give him the last
bit of courage he needs, nya?  Now get out there and give him the
purrformance of a lifetime!  Mew there! Our white Palico pal was deeply
moved by your purrformance out there.  I bet that he'll show even more courage
if you raise your HR. That Palico is full
of pawsibilities, meow! Nothing like having some fine furriends
to hone your trade with, am I right?  I guess in my case, it would have to
be the Wycoon. Nya ha! Mew there! Hello!
Welcome to the Cheeko Meowket!  Can I interest you in a purrchase?
From Potions to Antidotes, Exhaust S to
Exhaust Coating -- we carry it all, nya! Meow purrsonal recommendations are the
Hot Drink and Deodorant. Say so long to
coldness and stinkiness, meow! Mew there! Congratulations on completing
that super tough Quest! It must have been
a real pawful to get that medal. I'd like to believe my great selection
of wares at least purrtly factored into
your success.  Hey! Wouldn't it be great if I could
celebrate by offering a discount, nya?!
Or even give you my items for free!  ...And wouldn't it be great if Kelbi
could fly? Sorry, I have to run a
business here, meow.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC032 (Cheeko Armory).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC032 (Cheeko Armory).txt
SIZE: 4638 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:33:54
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: c56f87536374f6263060870cb3571a03bcefdd6d031f5a81e5a691d11064de57
================================================================================

﻿Anyway, what'll it be, meowster?  Meowsy on back real soon. Welcome to my Armory, meowster.
As you can see, most of my wares are
junk I found out on the beach... Ahh! *ahem* I mean, I stock nothin' but
the finest wares impurrted only from the
greatest trade centers. Quality first. So many customers today! The only thing
that'd make the day more fun is a
purrchase from you, meowster. Hmm, I wonder if that moody-looking
young hunter over there will buy
something too. You purrobably think you've got it made
with yer Great Sword's slashes, but don't
forget Side Strikes deal blunt damage!  Ain't many attacks showier than the Long
Sword's Spirit Roundslash, meow? It if
hits, ya get a boost in Attack! Say, meowster, didja notice the Sword &
Shield enshrined out there on the
little islet? That's the weapon Mother Meow's hubby
used to wield, nya. Let's not purrtend the Dual Blades' Demon
Mode ain't great. Higher Attack? More
hits? Better movement speed? Meowzers!  I get woozy watchin' the Hammer's Spinning
Bludgeon, nyagh... But the meowtiple hits
help in inflicting abnormal statuses.  The Hunting Horn ain't just for toots.
You can Stun meownsters, too, which makes
it a purrfectly attractive weapon, nya?  The Lance's meowsive shield can block
blows from the side. Stay purrtected while
ya move in to exploit a weakness.  A Gunlance's Shell Type determines the
power, capacity, and range of shells.
Which one is best for the job, nya?  Usin' a Switch Axe? Stick purr-marily with
Axe Mode, land sword blows when you can,
then hit 'em with an Element Discharge, meow. Say, didja know Charge Blade attacks that
drain your phials can't be deflected?
It's true, nya. The Insect Glaive and Kinsect are an
amazing pair. You can feed the Kinsects
nectar to change their abilities, nya! Have you tried the Bow's Power Shot
yet? It lets you fire an arrow one level
higher than your charge level, meow. Meowster, meowster! Oh, the drama...
Whitescruff got into a BIG cat fight
with the miss in charge of Sunsnug Isle.  She told him to take a page from the
Ace Palico's book... Zing! She's just tryin' to help him get over
his, er, lack of bravery, nya? She wasn't
tryin' to be a bully...  Whoa! Color me surpurrised! Whitescruff finally worked up the guts
to go after the meownster that put the
old sinkeroo on Mother Meow's ship, nya.  Ya think he'll be able to hunt it,
meowster? Last I checked, that fraidy cat
wouldn't even pick up a hermit crab... Meow, thanks a bunch! Ya really came
through for Whitescruff when you sent
that meownster packin'!  I think he meowntioned wantin' to see a
REAL display of courage -- something
like watch you bump your HR up a notch.  Goin' out for a hunt with yer pals?
Why not purrchase one of my Hunting Horns
and take a crack at a support role, nya?  Shh! Act normal, meow!
...So. Are you the one?  Nyeh heh. Nice! I may have looked like I
was takin' a cat nap, but that's my
eagerly-expectin' pose.  Why? 'Cause I was eagerly expectin' YOU!
You risin' star, you. Nyeh heh...  Oh, I know all about you and your rise
up the ranks. Pull off MY delivery, and
I'll get ya purrmoted to CAPO, meow. ...Huh? Whaddaya mean, "Deliver WHAT"?
Eggs!  Wyvern Eggs ! What else would I be
talkin' about, nya?  I filed a Quest with the Guildmarm
called   " Egg-straction: Wyvern ."
Meowm's the word!  And if you tell anyone who I really am...
Well, let's just hope it doesn't come to
that, meow.  Wouldn't want my minions to get involved
and end up with you sleepin' with the
Sleepyfishes. Hypurrthetically speakin'. Nice, meow! Real nice. Ain't no egg
on YOUR face. ...That was a pun, beclaws
you delivered an egg.  You and those strong arms of yours are
going straight to the top, I tell nya.
'Cause I got the okay to purrmote ya! The Don has got his eye on you meow.
He might even try to ap-purr-oach
you direct-like. So don't think you can turn yer back
on us, meow. This is an offer you
can't refuse...if you follow me. Wouldn't want my minions to get involved
and end up with you sportin' a couple
extra holes. Hypurrthetically speakin'.  Anyhoo, should we make with the
syndicate anthem? Ready-- *inhale*  Wait! Where ya goin'? I haven't even
started serenadin' ya yet, meow! Hey, meowster. Mind if I pick yer brain?  What equipment didja use to clobber that
uber-Quest and get that fancy medal, nya?  If I start stockin' it, I can purr-obably
double -- no, triple! -- my business with
minimal investment... Ahh! *ahem* I mean, I can purrvide better
service to my customers. Purrsonal gain
is the last thing on my mind. ...Meow.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC033 (Headwhiskers).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC033 (Headwhiskers).txt
SIZE: 13760 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:34:12
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 22e8301e2f8320890e7d0cfe93df88fac3bbed8277095cb902f474d464c2115c
================================================================================

﻿By the way, Minion, I would really like to
give you this purr-esent, but your Item
Box is full... Minion, the Isle is yours to use as
you please. No fine purr-int! No hidden
clawses!  You can leave Palicoes here if you like,
or use the isle as a training yard, nya. My dream is to make this isle into
a Palico purr-adise. One day it will be
a resort of epic purr-portions!  Whitescruff is such a whiny little
Palicoward, meow... He's capable of so
much more, too! I don't know why he has to spend his time
cowering and purrcrastinating.  One of these days I'm gonna tell him off.
He should take a leaf from Ace's book, nya!
Oh Ace... *purr*  Minion, you should be able to   recruit
Wild Palicoes  in the field now.  They might turn up during Expeditions
now and then, too, meow.  Check the Expedition info screen to
quickly see if any Wild Palicoes will
be on the purr-owl. Did you have any luck op-purr-ating the
Casting Machine? It's easy, meow. 1. Select   1-5 Palicoes   to help you fish.
2. Try and target  schools  of fish, nya.
3. Wait for the right moment and CAST! Purrty neat, right? You'll rake in a
metric fish-ton in no time flat, meow. If all the fish are gone after you
finish with the Casting Machine,
why not go for a hunt?  When you get back, meowre fish are sure
to be waiting.  Purr-omise you'll go see what Mother
Meow has to say? Don't be shy, meow. Knowing her, she'll make it well worth
your while -- Felyne's honor!  You can assign between one and five
Palicoes to the Meownster Hunters.
Get out there and hire a bunch, nya! I know it's a lot of work to come all the
way to the Isle just to send off the
Meownster Hunters, meow. Well, no worries. The Housekeeper in
your house can lend you a paw; he can
send them off and pick up rewards. Meow? Advice on which Palicoes to put on
Meownster Hunter duty? Hmm...  Well, I imagine Palicoes with lots of
Enthusiasm would purrform the best,
don't you think?  You can leave Palicoes here on the Isle
if you purrfur. That way you can go out
and hire more, nya. When you fish with the Casting Machine,
you can spend Caravan Points to   throw bait  
and increase your haul, nya. Isn't that just purrfect? Think of
the metric fish-tons you'll bring
home, meow!  Whether or not Palico Skills kick in at
the Casting Machine comes down to
Enthusiasm, meow. Naturally, Palicoes with lots of
Enthusiasm are going to try a lot
harder. Rawr!  Oh! Purrdon me. I don't usually rawr.
How meowrtifying... You might be shocked by the
humongous fish you might catch with
the Casting Machine, meow.  Just thinking about it makes me
shudder... Or maybe that's my tummy
rumbling. *purr*  The Skills of the Palicoes using the
Casting Machine have a purrnounced
effect on the fish you catch. If you purrfur a certain fish, make
sure you put the right Palico on the
job, nya?  The meowgic word when you use the
Casting Machine is "timing," nya. Throw the net where lots of fish are
clawstered together, and you're sure to
rake in a seafood smeowrgasbord. Up to five Palicoes can work the Casting
Machine, and five can go on Meownster
Hunter duty. So hire as many as you can. I know it's a lot of work to come all the
way to the Isle just to send off the
Meownster Hunters, meow. Well, no worries. The Housekeeper in
your house can lend you a paw; he can
send them off and pick up rewards. Meow? Advice on which Palicoes to put on
Meownster Hunter duty? Hmm...  Well, I imagine Palicoes with lots of
Enthusiasm would purrform the best,
don't you think?  The more enemies your Meownster Hunters
can clobber, the meowre Scraps they'll
earn! Isn't that meowvelous? I heard a little something I should
share, meow.  If you put Palicoes with the same
Skills in the Meownster Hunters,
they'll all get stronger, nya! Isn't that meowgnificent? If you ever find that you're too busy to
direct the Meownster Hunters for all of
their route, I have good news, meow! You can go ahead and entrust them with
all the remaining Quests...  Then collect the rewards once you get
back from a Quest of your own, meow.  But is that really meowch faster, nya?  I think it would be admeowrable if you
picked Palicoes for the Meownster Hunters
based on what meownsters they'll face. Some Palico Skills are better suited for
certain meownsters, nya? You need to know
their compawtibility inside out. Oh! Hello there, Minion.
...What, nya? My favorite dish?  D-don't make me say it out loud, meow!
(It's snugglefish and codling. *purr*) He's so dreamy... That meowsculine
pawsture, that gentle compawssion...
Those rippling pawceps, rawr! Oh dear. Did I say all that out loud?
Mew...  Minion, I... *sniff* I lost control and
said horrible things to Whitescruff.  I told him I hate cowards and that he
should be more like Ace. Meow, what was
I thinking? Poor Whitescruff was heartbroken. If I
have a paw in pushing him further into
his shell, I'll never furgive myself... Mother Meow wants the best for
Whitescruff too, you know. After all, she remembers what his
pawpaw was like...  Oh, did you not know? Whitescruff's
father was Mother Meow's hubby's
Palico. True story, nya! Can you believe it, Minion?!
Whitescruff finally got his act
together, nya! He's going to go out there and face
that meownster! All he needs is one more push, meow.
Don't let his newfound courage go
to waste!  Whitescruff's cowardice all started
beclaws of just one Flying Wyvern.
Ace, be careful out there. ...You too, Minion. That meownster
single-pawedly scuttled Mother Meow's
ship and stranded her here.  Minion, I know you bent over backwards
to help Whitescruff. I just want you to
know how meowch it's a-purr-eciated. I think things will get better, meow. In the meantime, don't worry about him.
Just go out there and raise your HR or
whatever it is you do, nya.  Meow... This is a fine purrdicament.
Whatever am I going to do? The Palicoes won't rally to my claws,
and Whitescruff's too cowardly to be of
any help. There's just no hope left, meow...
I sweep and sweep this Felyne purradise,
but for what? I was ready to care for   20 Palicoes , but
I haven't managed to whisk up even one.
I can't keep doing this alone...  ...Meow? A hunter?
Oh, how meowrtifying! How long have you
been listening to my mewling?  Well, don't go judging me just because
you saw a meowment of weakness. I have a
broom and I'm ready to use it, nya! A large meownster is closing in on the
village, and I mean to purrtect it.  That's why I've been looking for brave
and strong   Wild Palicoes  to join
my claws.  Did you see one of the flyers-in-a-bottle
I floated out to sea? ...No? Meow.  Anyway, Wild Palicoes are wandering
Palicoes who don't serve any meowsters. I thought they would flock to this
island purradise I oversee and become
the village  garrison  , nya?  Right now, the Isle has accommodations
for  20 of them  . I was hoping to get at least one, meow...
Was it something I put in the flyer?  ...Huh? Wait, meow! Up there in the sky!
Something's flying right toward us!  That lyne-like physique...
That anything's-pawsible look in your eye!
It can't be... Is it?!  You're the Ace Palico, meow!  I can't believe I'm standing in front of
my biggest hero! *purr*  Wait, what's this? There's a letter tied
to the arrow, nya... Hmm, let's see. " CONGALALA  HAS INVADED OUR HIDEOUT.
 SEND HELP IMMEDIATELY. MEOW MEOW MEOW.
                         --WILD PALICO" Oh my whiskers! This is terrible!
The Wild Palicoes are in trouble, nya!  ...What's that, Ace? ...Really?!  You and your hunter minion are willing
to put your fur on the line and go rescue
the Wild Palicoes? *Purr* You're so dreamy, meow...  Well, if that's settled, I'll do what I
can to purrvide help from here. Like I meowntioned, this isle was made
to   accommodate Palicoes  . Minion, you're welcome to   use these
fur-cilities   any way you see fit, nya.  Just purr-omise you'll save the Wild
Palicoes. I know you can do it, Ace! ...Oh, and you too, Minion. Meow. Oh! Hello, Minion.
Can you spare a meowment?  I just want to read you a meowsage from
the Wild Palicoes you rescued.  Naturally, it came by arrow, nya. "HUNTER. I THANK YOU ON BEHALF OF ALL
 WILD PALICOES, MEOW."  "WE HAVE DECIDED TO REVEAL OUR
 PURR-ESENCE TO YOU OUT IN THE FIELD.
 PLEASE FIND US AND HIRE US, MEOW."  And there's meowre good news! The one and only  Meownster Hunters  heeded
the Ace's summons and decided to live here
on the Isle! They're almost here, meow!  The Meownster Hunters are famous for their
bravery and compassion and derring-do. Once they're on our side, the village is
sure to be safe and s--  ...Huh? Wait, meow! Up there in the sky!
Something's flying right toward us!  That lyne-like physique...
That anything's-pawsible look in your eye! You really ARE the Ace Palico, meow!
*purr* Wait, what's this? There's a letter tied
to the arrow, nya... Hmm, let's see. "PINNED DOWN BY   ZAMTRIOS  .
 SEND HELP IMMEDIATELY. MEOW MEOW MEOW.
                   --MEOWNSTER HUNTERS"  Oh my whiskers! This is awful!
The Meownster Hunters are in trouble, nya! ...What's that, Ace? ...Really?!  You and your hunter minion are willing
to put your fur on the line and go rescue
the Meownster Hunters? *Purr* You're so dreamy, meow.
I need to find some way to thank you...
I know, nya! I scrubbed that   Casting Machine  top to
bottom and got it purring again.  One Palico or up to five can use it to
catch lots of fish, meow. It's almost as
dreamy as you, Ace... *purr*  Anyway, feel free to use the  board on the
left side of the Isle   to put Palicoes on
the machine, nya. Don't be shy! Cast away!  And thanks for agreeing to save the
Meownster Hunters. I know you can do
it, Ace! ...Oh, and you too, Minion. Meow. Oh! Hello, Minion.
Can you spare a meowment?  Thanks to your help, the Meownster Hunters
made it safely to the Isle, nya!
The Ace has taught you well. *purr* So what are you waiting for?
Go hire them, meow!  By the way, I told Mother Meow that
you helped me out, and she was very
im-purr-essed.  She said she had a  favor  she wanted
to ask of you. Do you think you could
hear her out, meow? Minion, I was hoping I could ask you
a special favor, meow. Haven't you ever wanted to try making
  weapons and armor for your Palicoes ? You can, but you need special materials
called  Scraps   to do it --
and the  Meownster Hunters  can help, nya. When you send one of your hired Palicoes
out as a Meownster Hunter, he or she will
bring home Scraps. Use the   board on the right of the Isle  
to paw out assignments, meow.  1. Select   1-5 Palicoes   to send out.
2. Select a route.
...And that's it. Off they go, nya!  Once the Meownster Hunters' adventures have
concluded, they'll return to this isle,
where you can claim your Scraps.  You can also pick up the rewards from
your  Housekeeper . If you have any questions about it,
go ahead and purr-use   Help  , found in
the upper left of the Touch Screen.  Anything's worth trying once, right?
Have fun, meow!  Oh! Minion! That was so nice of you to deliver the
goods the Wycoon asked for.
You helped us expand! *purr* Now the Isle can accommodate up to
 30 Palicoes . No meownsters will get near the
village now!  Oh! Minion! That was so nice of you to deliver the
goods the Wycoon asked for.
You helped us expand! *purr* Just look, nya? The Isle has turned into
a resort of epic purr-purrtions!
Now we can accommodate up to  40 Palicoes . At last, my plan for Sunsnug Isle
is all coming together, meow --
and it's all beclaws of you.  Zenny thanks, Minion! Zenny thanks! Oh! Minion! That was so nice of you to deliver the
goods the Wycoon asked for.
You helped us expand! *purr* It may not look any different, but
our purr-adise now has a gorgeous
underground space! Now we can accommodate up to  50 Palicoes . At last, my mission as Sunsnug Isle's
Headwhiskress has been accomplished,
meow -- and it's all beclaws of you. Zenny thanks, Minion! Zenny thanks! Meow! Minion, the most amazing thing
has happened!  Whitescruff has finally conquered his
fears and returned home, nya. I hear your bravery was the claws.
You must have really rubbed off on him!
I couldn't be happier. *purr*  Thank you so much!  You're the most   heroic   minion I've
ever met. And that's quite a medal
you've got there. It makes you look so dashing that I
wouldn't be sur-purr-ised if you managed
to   pull that stubborn sword out  ! Or maybe that's just me jumping to
conclusions again, meow. But a Headwhiskress is allowed
to dream, isn't she? I heard the news, Mini-- I mean Hunter!
You completed the Caravaneer's
Challenge, didn't you? ...I'm so sorry I called you Minion, meow.
You deserve to be called Vice Felyne at
the very least, nya? Minion, this is for you, nya. It's a little souvenir the Palicoes
brought you after their tour with the
Meownster Hunters. Isn't that sweet, meow?  Oh! Minion! Good news! Thanks to their hard work,
the Meownster Hunters can now
tackle  High-rank  routes.  High-rank routes are much more
purr-ilous, so make doubly sure the
Meownster Hunters are ready for them!  Of course, the risk is worth the  rewards .
You'll be able to make all kinds of Palico
equipment with the Scraps you find!  Palicoes are always up for new
adventures. And new equipment, nya!  Oh yes, before I purrget, I have to tell
you about some new Meownster Hunter
skills that your Palicoes now have.  For example, the  +  mark means that
skill's attack damage is much higher.  Unreal Blocking  will sometimes negate
all damage from a monster. There are other interesting new skills.
Maybe you'll find a Wild Palico that
has some?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC034 (Fishing Felyne).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC034 (Fishing Felyne).txt
SIZE: 4583 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:34:40
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 9ff360aa8f60d7206172fb7e1191ee2f00d5946b2ec07bbd5420e2959c674d01
================================================================================

﻿When I go fishin', I combine items to
make diffurent kinds of bait, nyuh-huh. I always make the right bait for the
right fish. 'Cause knowledge is the best
fishin' pole, nyuh-huh! If ya want to catch spurrkly fish, you
need to combine up special, spurrkly bait,
nyuh-huh. That's common sense.  ...What's "spurrkly," y'ask? The kind of
fish that glitters, of course. I thought
meowst people knew that.  If you're near the water and fish are
around, purr-ess the A Button to fish
with lures, nyuh-huh. Ya don't need bait! If ya purr-ess the Y Button with bait
selected you'll use that instead, which
might catch ya a rare fish, nyuh-huh. This one time, I was eatin' a meowth-
waterin' Glutton Tuna and an item popped
out, nyuh-huh. Was I sur-purr-ised! The good Wycoon told
me I could use what I found to obtain
more items, nyuh-huh. This one time, I tried to sink my teeth
into a Whetfish, nyuh-huh. Boy, was that
a bad idea.  The good Wycoon explained that I
could use the Whetfish just like a
Whetstone to sharpen my weapon, nyuh-huh. This one time, I tried to sink my teeth
into a fish and it blew up in my face,
nyuh-huh.  Was I sur-purr-ised! The good Wycoon
told me I could combine the fish with
items to make Bowgun ammo, nyuh-huh. I could meow away the whole day fishin'
by the water like this, nyuh-huh. I don't
even mind if a few big'uns get away.  Why did the miss in Sunsnug Isle have to
go and tell Whitescruff to "cat up"? Palicoes can't just summon their courage
on command, nyuh-huh. I hope you go a
little easier on him, Hunter.  It sounds like Whitescruff has meowed
up his mind, nyuh-huh.  He says he's gonna go find the meownster
that smashed up Mother Meow's ship.  He thinks that medal he got is gonna save
his rump... Good grief, nyuh-huh. Thanks, Hunter. Maybe after your display
of bravery, Whitescruff will meowster up
a little more courage, nyuh-huh.  Just purr-omise you'll be there to give
him another demonstration if he falls
back into his old habits, meowkay?  Sometimes the Caravaneer fishes with me
while you're out hunting, nyuh-huh. Fishin' together's every bit as fun as
huntin' together, if ya ask me.  Meowdy, Hunter. Hawaya? The feller in charge of the Harth
Market tells me you're a whiz at fishin',
nyuh-huh. Is it true? Beclaws I've got a job for ya. I've been
itchin' to catch meowre kinds of fish
with the Casting Machine, nyuh-huh.  But before I can im-purr-ove the facility,
I need to sell some Goldenfish and put
some money away, nyuh-huh.  Could ya do me a favor and  deliver some
Goldenfish  for me?  I filed a Quest with the lady in green
called   " Goldenfish Gold Mine  ,"
nyu-huh. Thanks very meowch. Meowdy, Hunter. Hawaya? Thanks for deliverin' the Goldenfish. You can catch a whole bunch of new fishes
over at the Casting Machine, so give it
a whirl, nyuh-huh.  Meow that I know I can count on ya,
expect more business from me sometime
real soon, nyuh-huh!  Meow, dang it all! This is meowrtifying.
I'll never catch that stupid fish... Oh! Meowdy, Hunter. Sorry you had to see
me make a scene, nyuh-huh. I'm in trouble. I told Mother Meow that
I'd catch her a   Speartuna ...
Me and my big meowth! I'll never catch one, and she'll be so
disappointed... Do ya think you might
have better luck?  You're a fishin' whiz. If you catch a
Speartuna for me, I'd be meowty grateful,
nyuh-huh. I filed a Quest with the lady in green
called   " Speartuna Fishing ,"
nyuh-huh.  Thanks very meowch. I'd hate to break
Mother Meow's heart...  Meowdy, Hunter. Hawaya? Thanks for deliverin' the Speartuna.  Mother Meow was so happy, nyuh-huh! Her smiles are so contagious. I'd hug
you if I wasn't allergic, nyuh-huh! Congrats, Hunter! You purr-aded right
over that tough Quest, nyuh-huh.  And y'even came through for little old
me when I was in a pickle. Thanks very
meowch. Since you're such a kind, strong hunter,
I want ya to have this fish I just
caught-- Nyack! Rats. It got away...  Meowdy, Hunter. Hawaya? Could it be that ya finished the  Frenzied
Zamtrios  request for little old me?
That was mighty kind of ya! Now that the Zamtrios are
gone, the tides've changed, yes they
have.  Thanks to that, rare Scraps've drifted
toward Sunsnug Isle. I'm sure ya'd be able to fish up a
few if ya used the Casting Machine.  Oh yeah, and there's somethin' else.
Lately, I've been seein' this huge green fish
swimmin 'round the isle, nyuh-huh. I'd bet my tail ya could use the Casting
Machine to catch it too! Think of the
materials you could get from a fish like that.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC035 (Purrambulating Felyne).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC035 (Purrambulating Felyne).txt
SIZE: 3359 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:35:22
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 55a6988449b72f9b0ba3621d99cf378e1c9eead220c285ae03d160b699fe0cde
================================================================================

﻿All manner of flotsam and jetsam washes up
on the Sands. We get fruits, letters-in-
bottles, cargo from ship-purr-wrecks... Sometimes we even find hunters on the
verge of drowning. Those are the best,
'cause we get to poke them awake.  

Each day is filled with happy moments:
a meal of fresh fish, a chat with Mother
Meow, the rippling of the waves, meow.  You and your crew are welcome to settle
down here, Hunter. We won't object, nya.  

Hunter, you can get to Sunsnug Isle from
the beach over yonder, meow. That place
is a Felyne paradise!  We're secretly plotting to fill the Isle
with Wild Palicoes and increase the
village numbers... Er, secret's out, nya!  

For whatever reason, this village doesn't
get many visitors, meow.  All we get are lost sailors, disheveled
merchants, and the occasional hunter with
poor map-reading skills. Weird, nya?  

I used to think fish tasted best raw...
until I got to try the Open-air Kitchen's
menu. Mind blown, nya!  It turns out fish taste good sautéed,
stewed, steamed, and fried, meow! Fish are
purrfect no matter what. 

Did those four buff-looking hunters
already hit the road, meow? We rarely get guests, so I went out to
find some purr-oper food, but by the time
I got back, they were gone... Mew... 

I hope you're not planning on abandoning
us, Hunter. You can come back and hang
whenever you want, nya! 

The other day, the Wycoon was telling me
all about rare commodities and how he gets
a leg up on the meowcantile competition.  He and I are friends now, and that's the
best thing in the whole world. 

*purr*  Purrk your ears and listen to this,
Hunter. The other day I found a bottle
with a letter inside it! It was signed, uh... Oh yeah!
"The Hunter with a Sword & Shield
Looking for Cheeko Sands."  I wonder if the hunter will find
us, meow. I hope so! 

Night falls so quickly when I stare at
the waves. Maybe the sun got pulled into
the undertow! Nyeh heh. 

Hunter, did you know that Whitescruff's
pop was one of the bravest of Palicoes?
He purrtected the village all by himself. Whitescruff needs to meowster up a little
more courage if he's going to live up to
that medal his pop left to him, meow.  

Well, Whitescruff said he's finally
going to "cat up" and face that meownster.  Look after him, will you, Hunter? What he really needs is someone like his
father to remind him what courage is, nya. 

Hunter, thanks for sticking by Whitescruff
even when he was being a furr-aidy cat.  He wants you to keep raising your HR so he
can look to you for ins-purr-ation again.  

While you're out purrsuing meownsters,
I sometimes crawl into the Wycoon's
dresser, nya. Always fixes a dull day! He doesn't mind, beclaws we're
friends now. 

Thanks for being there for the
Headwhiskress, nya.  I made a little arrangement with the
Guildmarm for you as meow way of
saying thanks.  Now you can go on a   Harvest Tour   in
this area, meow!  There are two Quests:
  " Harvest Tour: Primal Forest "...  And   " Harvest Tour: Frozen Seaway ."  I hope that helps you out, beclaws
you really deserve it. 

*purr*  Mother Meow told me you completed some
kind of difficult Quest and got a really
im-purr-essive medal. Congrats, meow! How'd you like some buried treasure as
a thank-you gift?  ...Me too! But there isn't any, nya.
You'd think with all this sand I'd have
better luck...



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC036 (Cowardly Palico).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC036 (Cowardly Palico).txt
SIZE: 10799 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:35:34
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 63bddfa264c168da19db450faf0ad1ede0cbe4c22cfc1be3d77ecf5472f50395
================================================================================

﻿Hire me, Hunter! I'll try to be brave and
make you purr-oud, rawr!  Are you here to scout me, too?
Well, forget it. I'm a washout.
A Palicoward! A nobody, mew. I c-c-can't hunt to save my life... The Headwhiskress back at Sunsnug Isle
can just f-f-forget about me, mew. And so should you! I'm t-telling you I'm
not P-Palico mewterial.  If Pawpaw were here, he'd tell me to
face the mewsic, I just kn-know it.  Hunter, wh-wh-where did all those thugs
run off to? They must have given up on
t-trying to hire me, mew.  Well, g-g-good! *whew*  Ah, that reminds me. The Headwhiskress
back on Sunsnug Isle was l-looking for
you, mew. You can go without me. She'll just call
me a c-coward and tell me to "cat up"
like she did l-last time. Hunter, why are Lagombi so
s-s-scary? Mew...  Just when you think they're fur away,
BOOM! They come ch-ch-charging right
at you.  Everyone's out to g-get me.
Especially the Lagombi. Hunter, why is the Frozen Seaway so
s-s-scary? Mew... That's where that Zamite h-hangs out
and ch-chomps at anyone who tries to
walk by it! I h-hate being chomped, mew.
I hate that s-stupid Zamite. Oh! H-hunter. The miss back in
Sunsnug Isle was l-looking for
you, mew. You can go without me. She'll just call
me a c-coward and tell me to "cat up"
again...  Oh! H-hunter. Mother Meow was looking for
you, mew. Don't keep her w-waiting. She's nice and
deserves better than that. Hunter, why are Khezu so
s-s-scary? Mew...  They cling to the w-walls and get the
d-drop on you when you least expect it! I just know the stupid thing is trying to
scare me out of my s-s-skin, mew. Hunter, why is the Primal Forest so
s-s-scary? Mew... All those t-toxic swamps that p-poison
you... You couldn't d-drag me there if
you tried.  Is it t-true the Open-air Kitchen has been
spruced up, mew? I've never seen the cook
so happy.  Mother Meow must have been purrleased,
too, because she was grinning from
whisker to whisker. But I suppose I wasn't much help in
m-making it happen, mew.  Hunter, did you n-notice the Caravaneer
was purrusing some kind of letter?  He looked horrified. It must have said
something r-really awful, mew...
Like how much of a c-coward I am. Oh, Hunter. I was just remembering
my pawpaw. He was such a good father, mew. Did you know he was Mother Meow's
hubby's Palico? He was very distinguished.  I just w-wish I could have seen what
he was like in action. Mother Meow said he was very b-brave.
C-clearly, I don't take after him, mew. A long ways back, Mother Meow's ship
was beset by a t-t-terrible meownster and
got ship-purr-wrecked. Her hubby was never seen again, mew.  I've been n-n-no good with meownsters
ever since I heard the s-story. So you see, it's the meownster's fault
I'm a coward. Right? Right, mew?
*sniff* Oh...Hunter.  I was just g-gazing wistfully at this
medal Pawpaw gave me. It was awarded to him back when he was
Mother Meow's hubby's P-Palico. Medals
like this are a real honor, mew.  I feel like it keeps me safe...
But it doesn't do s-s-s-s-squat for
my courage... Oh...Hunter. I was j-just thinking about
the Ace Palico.  Do you think he ever loses his nerve?
I mean, m-meownsters are so HUGE, and...  If they get mad, they could s-smash
apart whole villages and towns and
sh-ships!  One little F-Felyne hardly stands a
chance, mew...  Earlier, I was helping the
Headwhiskress do her c-cleaning on
Sunsnug Isle. She d-didn't say anything, but I bet she
was just purrtending not to care that I'm
a big old c-coward, mew. I want her to like me. But I also don't
want the m-meownsters to EAT me...
Mew. Oh...Hunter. I was just thinking about
Mother Meow's hubby, mew.  He was a valiant hunter who took on
b-big, strong meownsters lots of times. I wonder if he made it someplace safe,
mew... If he came home, then I'd know it's
okay to be less s-scared of meownsters. I want to w-watch from the shadows when
you summon your courage and hunt the
Nerscylla, mew.  T-teach me what it means to be
that brave! Purrlease? I want to w-watch from the shadows when
you summon your courage and hunt the
Najarala, mew. T-teach me what it means to be
that brave! Purrlease? I finally know what to do, Hunter!  All I have to do to get r-rid of my
cowardly streak is face my d-d-demons
head on, mew! That means driving away the Akantor
that's always g-given me nightmares.  Well, it means YOU d-driving it away, but
you'll be driving away my jitters at the
same time! Thanks for chasing that meownster off,
hunter.  I went after you and saw the whole thing
from the shadows.  If I ever have a relapse, purr-omise me
you'll help me snap me out of it by showing
me the courage of a true hunter once again! Are you going to the Gathering Hall?
I kn-know the place. Lots of brave
hunters purrtner up there.  Wh-wh-where did all these thugs
come from? Why won't everyone just leave
me alone, mew? ...Hmm? Who's there? A hunter?
Are you here to scout me? To f-f-force me
into horrific servitude? Well, forget it. I'm a washout.
A Palicoward! A nobody, mew.  I c-c-can't hunt to save my life... P-p-please, Hunter! I need your help! I hear a Congalala crashed our
hideout the other day and
t-t-totally trashed the place, mew.  And let's not even m-mention the Gendrome,
which can purr-alyze you and make you
easy pickings for the Congalala... I p-put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " The Smell of Fear ."  Do me a favor and chase those n-n-nasty
baddies off, mew. After all, you're brave, and I'm just a
Felyne chicken... Thanks for d-d-driving off the Congalala
and the Gendrome, Hunter.  Does this mean the Sunken Hollow is
safe now? ...It d-doesn't?  I refuse to go outside until the
meownsters are gone and peace has been
restored to the Sunken Hollow, mew. But p-p-promise you'll lend a paw if I
get into trouble again. P-p-purrty please? P-p-please, Hunter! I need your help! I hear two Khezu have taken
up residence in the Frozen Seaway, mew. I just know they're waiting to c-c-corner
me and turn me into a c-c-coward sandwich!  I p-put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " Advanced: Khezu Chaos ."  Do me a favor and chase those n-n-nasty
baddies off, mew. After all, you're brave, and I'm just a
Felyne ch-ch-chicken... Thanks for d-d-driving off the two
Khezu, hunter. Does this mean the Frozen Seaway is
safe now? ...It d-doesn't?  I refuse to go outside until the
meownsters are gone and peace has been
restored to the Frozen Seaway, mew. But p-p-promise you'll lend a paw if I
get into trouble again. P-p-purrty please? P-p-please, Hunter! I need your help! The other day, folks were saying a
Tetsucabra and Zamtrios were running
amok in the Frozen Seaway, mew. I hear this pair are even more vicious
and p-p-purrnicious than usual...  I p-put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " Advanced: Amphibiphobia ."  Do me a favor and chase those n-n-nasty
baddies off, mew. After all, you're brave, and I'm just a
Felyne chicken... Thanks for d-d-driving off the Tetsucabra
and Zamtrios, Hunter. But I have one more purr-quest.
I mean r-request, mew.  The other day, folks were saying
Gore Magala was running amok in the
Primal Forest, mew.  And an Iodrome, too -- one with
n-n-nasty black breath! I p-put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " Advanced: Afraid of the Dark  ."  Do me a favor and chase those n-n-nasty
baddies off, mew. After all, you're brave, and I'm just a
Felyne chicken... *Sob, sniff* Oh... Hunter, it's you.  Thanks for d-d-driving off the Iodrome
and Gore Magala. *sniff* Oh, don't mind me, mew. My life is only
compurrletly d-d-destroyed... The miss at
Sunsnug Isle h-hates me now.  When a  Nerscylla  showed up near the
village, I said I was too scared to
d-do anything about it, mew.  And then she yelled at me and said I
should "cat up." That I should be more
like the Ace Palico, mew. *sob* It's not like I don't try, mew!
I hate that I'm such a purrthetic
c-c-c-c...coward. I wish I was brave enough to stand up
for the village like a real P-Palico.
Maybe you could give me an example, mew?  Hunt the Nerscylla for me while I
watch your dispurrlay of courage from
the sh-shadows... I put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " Arachnophobia ."  Do me this one last favor, mew?
P-p-purrlease?  Thanks for hunting the Nerscylla, mew.  I watched very carefully from the shadows,
and I think... I th-think I'm not ready to be b-brave
just yet, mew. A   Najarala   has closed in on
the village and Mother Meow is at
her w-wits' end.  Can I get a little sneak purr-eview of
what it's like to hunt the Najarala?
I'll watch from the sh-shadows again. I put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " Fear Factor ."  Really, I'm only going to ask this ONE
last favor, mew? P-p-purrlease?  Thanks for hunting the Najarala, mew. You were so b-brave. But I'm still not
sure I can p-p-purrform when it counts...
You see, I do have an endgame in m-mind. I want you to teach me how to be
c-courageous enough to hunt a very
spurrcific m-meownster. It's the same horrible meownster Mother
Meow's hubby meowstered all his courage
to stand against, mew.  I'm talking about the massive, ginormous,
really really b-b-big   Akantor . Mother Meow's ship was sunk by an
Akantor, and her hubby went
missing during the chaos, mew.  My pawpaw told me the s-story a
hundred times, at least...so many times
that I developed m-meownsterphobia. But if you take an Akantor down,
I r-really think I could get over my
purroblem once and for all. I put a Quest in with the lady in green
called  " Advanced: Stand Tall  ."  I t-totally purr-omise this is the last
favor I'll ever, ever ask, mew.
P-p-purrlease, lend me your courage!  Hunter! Thank you SO, so meowch! I snuck
along after you on that last hunt and saw
the whole courageous affur. ...Affair! I think I saw in you a glimpse of Mother
Meow's hubby's bravery...and of Pawpaw's
bravery... It was inspiring, rawr!  ...Did I really just say "rawr"? I did,
rawr! I'm not scared anymore! Rawr! Even my stutter is g-g-gone!
...Almost! And it's all thanks to you and this medal
and Mother Meow and the sweet gal in
Sunsnug Isle who cared about me. I want you to have this medal, Hunter.
It's a purrecious gift from my pawpaw --
a   badge of courage  . ...Rawr.  I know I said I wouldn't ask any more
favors, but purrlease let me make just
one more request.  I want you to make me   your Palico , rawr! I never met Mother Meow's hubby, but I
think sticking claws to you might help
me get to know what he was like.  I'll bring along this   Bannerman armor
my pawpaw used to wear ages ago. Just say the word when you're ready to
take me along. I'll wait fur-ever if I
have to, rawr! ...Rawr rawr!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC040 (Smiling Youth).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC040 (Smiling Youth).txt
SIZE: 7243 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:36:08
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 30f435379c09c861103639d44fde7518c39cccea58c04c86df1034786e694020
================================================================================

﻿Why, hello there! Is something wrong? If it's the Elder you seek, you'll find
him further into the village. You'll
know the place when you see it.  Why, hello there! The wind feels
different today -- troubled, wouldn't
you say? I wonder why. Did something happen on
the mountain? Why, hello there! The village feels
empty now without the good Caravaneer.  The Guildmarm said he flew off to
someplace or another. I wonder why. I swear, the man is like a falcon...
The moment you think he's landed, he's
already vanishing into the sky. Why, hello there! The wind feels
different today -- troubled, wouldn't
you say? I wonder why. Did something happen on
the mountain? Why, hello there! Is something wrong? If it's the Elder you seek, you'll find
him further into the village. You'll
know the place when you see it.  I understand; there's a dangerous monster
out there and you need to go face it. But might I bother you with
one question? ...Actually, no. Forget I said anything.
I wish you great success!  Why, hello there!
A fine wind is blowing today. The village's Windwheels are spinning
merrily, so I suspect we'll have a nice,
uneventful day.  Whew... Perhaps I might take a break.
Care to join me?  ...Oh really? You'll plant for me?
Why, thank you!  Whew... Why, hello there!
Look at the children go! So full of
energy today! You're looking well, too. Did you have
a good hunt? ...Really?  Why, hello there! Your whale looks
ready for a good swim, doesn't it?
...Yes, I know it's an airship. But when I first saw it on the horizon,
I genuinely thought for a moment that
the sky had become the sea. Ha ha!  Oh! Careful there. Watch your step.
There's a seedling there. I know it's
small and easy to miss. It'll be fun to watch it grow big and
strong. I know I can't wait!  Why, look at you! Always hunting
yourself ragged. Why not join us all for a cup of tea once
you finish? You deserve the break.  Why, look at this! Off to hunt with
your friends? Be careful out there. Hmm? Oh, you're that hunter who arrived
on the whale. Hello there!  It must have been such a long journey
to Cathar. I can't remember the
last time we had a visitor. I certainly admire your vessel. Ha ha!
Did you build it yourselves? I must say, I never thought I'd
see a whale come flying across
the sky. Why, hello there! How goes the hunting
on Heaven's Mount? It's a wondrous place, isn't it?
But also treacherous: The footing can be
poor and the terrain tough to navigate. And, of course, it's teeming with
dangerous monsters. You'd be finished if
you got lost out there...  Listen, is there anything I can do
to help? I would hate to see you come
to any harm. ...Aha! I've got it! Why don't you go on
a Harvest Tour and acclimate yourself
to the area? That way you'll be able to move about
more confidently when you face monsters.  I've filed a Quest with the Guildmarm:
 " Harvest Tour: Heaven's Mount  ."  Feel free to go out on a tour when you
get the chance.  Why, hello there! How are you?
...Me? Well, I must confess: I am a
bit troubled.  A strange wind has been blowing on
Heaven's Mount of late. Something just
isn't right.  ...Really? A crazed Congalala?
That does explain a lot... Including why you made those frequent
trips onto the Mount. Thank you.  Did you know there is a   Sanctuary  on
Heaven's Mount? Long, long ago, the creatures there
fought and killed each other off in what
was known as the "Calamity." Accounts of the tragedy survived in our
oral and written history. Some describe "a god that descended from
heaven to punish the mountain creatures."  Others speak of "a baleful wind that
carved the mountain black."  The Calamity was said to originate where
the Sanctuary now lies.  But the truth is lost; any first-hand
witnesses to the Calamity are long dead,
and none dare approach the Sanctuary.  ...Oh, before I forget. The Guildmarm
was looking for you. Have you caught up
with her yet? It sounds as if a terribly dangerous
monster has been sighted in some sort
of "Ancestral Steppe." I take it you'll be going there
to investigate? What is it the Caravaneer would say?
"You're the one to get it right"? No...
"You're the one to make it happen"?  *Sigh* Hunting for catch phrases
may not be as hard as what you do,
but it certainly makes my brain hurt. Why, hello there! How are you?
It's so good to see you again. I'd say "little has changed here," but...
well, you know. At the very least, everyone is breathing
a sigh of relief now that the Shagaru
Magala threat has passed.  They were so eager to get back to work
that a few have hurt their backs tilling
the fields. Which reminds me! Perhaps you could
help us out with that.  There's a plant called  Mistentoe  that
grows on Heaven's Mount. It's said to
work wonders on back pain.  I've been picking as much as I can, but
there's only so much one man can do.  I left a Quest with the Guildmarm called
 " Mistentoe Delivery  ."  Think you could lend a hand with it
when you get a chance?  Thank you! That Mistentoe must have done
the trick, because the villagers are back
on their feet. They wanted me to give you a message.
Here, I'll read it... "You're like family to us now, so don't
hesitate to visit Cathar whenever
you get lonely."  Ha ha! I hope you think of us as
family, too. Oh! While I have you, Maximeld XIV
mentioned he had a favor to ask. Have you dropped by the Melding Pot
lately? I'm sure he'd appreciate it.  Why, hello there! Just the person I
wanted to see. Thanks SO much for
getting rid of that Kushala Daora.  Not everything has been easy, but I'm
very happy now that I've been entrusted
with the Grand Guru's robes.  And I'm just as happy that I've met a
good friend like you. I plan to tell Brother all about you.
I know he'll be pleased.  If it's not too presumptuous, can I give
you this   letter to my brother  ? I just want you to know how much
you're appreciated.  Why, hello there! I heard the news!
You completed the Caravaneer's greatest
challenge, isn't that right?  I feel as though history is being made
before my very eyes! It is a wonder and
an honor that I can count you a friend.  Between the Shagaru Magala and these
latest efforts, you never cease
to impress.  Do you remember the Song of Cathar I
sang for you when the Shagaru Magala came? Well, I found a second verse while
rummaging through old documents. It goes
like this...  "If ever should the dead awaken
Then welcome them as life reborn" "And if my heart from sleep is taken
Then let it sing upon the morn"  "Let all those souls be held entranced
And gather to my mighty strains" "For if they die again, by chance,
Their voices join the grand refrain" "Each soul shall have its time again
Within my hearts they still reside"  "And when I sing, they are sustained
From death to life, I am their guide."
...And then, the singing grows louder...  "Rejoice, rejoice my friend!
Our song will never end!"  "Never, ever end!"  ...Isn't that a touching song?
Life and death in a great cycle, bound
together by a great song in our hearts. So may our friendship "never, ever end."
Even if you leave Cathar for good, you
will always be a friend in my heart.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC041 (Cathar Market).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC041 (Cathar Market).txt
SIZE: 4553 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:37:32
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 543067276cf06a5f828d6ec1228f9803e16e33ac9d067d8aa99c391f9a3ace0a
================================================================================

﻿Anyway, have a gandah. I sell it all. Ayuh, come again. Anyway, have a gandah. Half off today!  Oho! Welcome, welcome.
Did ya swim heeah on the whale?  Then ya must've seen  Heaven   along
the way. The tall, tall mountain? Ayuh.
That's Heaven. Heaven gets her good winds and her
bad winds, but she's deeah to us all
the same. So, what's yer business in Cathar?
...An Article? Ah, antiquin', is it? Well, might be I've got what you're
lookin' for right heeah.  Hmm? Oh, the doah there?
That leads to the  Shrine  . Ayuh, the Shrine is a sort of remindah
of a promise we made to each othah.
It's what keeps Heaven safe. Hmm? You need to speak to the Eldah?
Well, don't let this old hen stop ya.  Back from the hunt?
The Eldah is mighty eagah to see ya.
Best not keep him waitin'. Ya see that gent over there in blue?
The Guild fellah from far away? Ayuh.  He wants to have a wahd with you.
...You know, a wahd? A convahsation.  Listen, now. You'll find the Grand Guru
back theyah in the Shrine.
It's straight through that doah apiece.  You treat him with respect, now. To old
hens like me, he stands for a lot. He's
like a...a livin' promise, ya might say.  A bad wind's blowin' up there on Heaven,
but it won't blow this old hen out of
her roost. I'm stayin' right heeah.  Might be I'm too young to remembah what
the wind will bring, but my promise to
Cathar stands all the same...  Ayuh, time slips by and life comes
and goes. Leavin' the mountain certainly
won't change it.  The Cool Drinks I sell taste so peculiah,
they'll have you swearin' ya just quaffed
poison. Ayuh. If that doesn't send a chill down
yer spine then I don't know what will.  The Hot Drinks I sell heeah taste like
an insult. Ayuh. If THESE don't burn y'up, then
I'll give ya a full refund.  You look like you might need a few
pointahs on usin' the Barrel Bomb S. The Barrel Bomb S explodes on its own,
so it works wondahs at detonatin'
other explosives. ...Ayuh, it's wicked.  Evah hunt yerself into a cornah from
time to time? What you need is a
Farcaster.  Farcasters whisk ya back to camp so you
can rest a spell and try again. The Psychoserum? It gives ya a brief
glance at a lahge monstah's position.
Ayuh. Very handy.  An Energy Drink is just the ticket when
ya feel ready to doze off.  Ayuh, the old-timer next door could use
a swig, if y'ask me...  Powercharms and Armorcharms are a
real blessin'. Both take effect just by
sittin' in yer Pouch. So, have ya learned the ins and out of
the huntin' ground?  Might be ya want to leave the Map behind
and cleeah an extra space in yer Pouch.
...I'm an old hen, but I'm pretty smaht. Some of the real old-time monstahs are
too clevah to succumb to Pitfall Traps
or Shock Traps, so be cayahful. The Barrel Bomb L+ works like a chahm
against sleepin' monstahs. Call it a
"blast from the blue," if ya like. Quaff an Ancient Potion to kiss yer
fatigue good-bye. Ayuh, it's somethin'
special. I drink one daily and look a hundred
years youngah than my age! I practically
have to swat the suitahs away.  Did you heeyah? The Grand Guru received
a letter from his eldah brothah.  Ayuh, I reckon he's rereadin' it
quietly in the Shrine as we speak. The children swayah they saw lightnin'
incarnate... Now whaddaya make of that?  If I saw lightnin', I'd want to make sure
I had a Nulberry with me, ayuh. Good day. The Grand Guru said he
wanted to ask ya a favah.  He's back theyah in the Shrine.
And I suppose that's that. Ayuh, Cathar
is in your hands now. Well, whaddaya know. You really came
through for the villajahs, this old hen
included.  I thank ya, truly. If I evah run
into anothah spot of trouble, I know who
to ask. In the meanwhile, though, why not try
raisin' your HR? Ayuh, I think it'd be
a fine ideeyah.  Goin' huntin' with yer friends? Make sure
ya take one of them thingies ya get by
combinin' Lifecrystals and a Field Horn. Ya know, this old hen's been gazing up
at Heaven lately and thinkin' of ways to
help ya out.  For startahs, I sent out for this
Monster Info book.
Ah, here it is.  Ayuh, this one's about the dragon --
the Wheel of Heaven that found its way
back from the recesses of time... If ya don't have the book yet, maybe you
should think about gettin' it -- might
help ya out.  Huntah, let me offah ya my
congratulations. I hear you earned yerself some sort of
falcon medal. This old hen's as excited
as the children! Ayuh, yer performance has heated us up
so much that Cool Drinks are flyin'
right off my shelves. Heh heh!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC042 (Cathar Armory).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC042 (Cathar Armory).txt
SIZE: 5722 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:37:52
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 88e720bbf1f3c30e20a8c1dcccc16d5b709fb406a265a7c42c2b31baa325253b
================================================================================

﻿Anyway, enough chit-chat.
Make yourself welcome... *snort*  Yup, come again... *snurfle*  Zzz... Wuhwuhwuhwuh... *snort* Hunh?
Wazza?! Can I help ya? Oh... This here's an Armory. We sell
weapons, armor, and, uh...and...
Go on, now, take a look around. I'll just be, uh, catchin' a bit
of shuteye.  Hunh? Oh, it's you.
So whaddaya think about my village?
That's a nice wind blowin', innit?  If trouble ever starts to brew, the wind
comes and blows it right to kingdom come.  'Course, I'll have been sleepin' through
it anyway, heh.  What's the story with that young
fellah in the hat? Oh, he's lookin'
for something, is he?  Maybe he'd like a more experienced pair
of eyes to help him out! I've got what
you might call pro peepers, heh. What's that now? You're lookin' for
the Elder? You need to speak with him?  You don't need the Elder when you've
got me! I'm what you might call a
pro listener.  Aha! We were hoping you might drop on by.
The Elder is lookin' for ya.  Did you get yourself in trouble again?
Want me to handle it? I'm what you might
call a pro problem-solver.  Oi! Can you believe it? An ill wind
has started blusterin' out of the
Sanctuary big time! There's an errand-boy here from the Guild
who wants to talk to you about it.  Hunh? Oh, it's you.
Don't keep the Grand Guru waitin'.
He's in the Shrine, through that door. Hunh? Oh, it's you. So there's an elder
dragon holed up in the Sanctuary, eh?
The Guild errand-boy in blue said so. Well, I know you'll do what needs doin'
without any gripin'. And I'm what you might
call a pro character-judge. What skill do I recommend for Great
Swords? Hrmmm... That'd have to be
Critical Draw. Yessir, that's a good fit.  Say, have you noticed that landing blows
with the Long Sword's Spirit Roundslash
makes the Spirit Gauge change color? Yessir, it has three colors, in fact.
Goes from white to yellow to red, and red
is the most powerful. 'Course, yours truly can charge HIS
Spirit Gauge in his sleep -- if you know
what I mean, heh!  A fine weapon, the Sword & Shield --
I'm quite fond of it, actually.  Single blows are nothin' to write home
about, but multiple blows? They let you
stack your weapon's elemental effects. Zzz... Hmm?! Oh, the, uh, Dual Blades?
They dance like a butterfly and sting
like a BEE QUIET WHILE I'M SLEEPIN'! If you're gonna use the Hammer, some
Dash Juice sure does come in handy.
Chargin' up while ya run feels great!  Yours truly is what you might call a
pro runner, heh! Dream about it all
the time.  Doin' an Encore on the Hunting Horn
amplifies melody effects or makes 'em
last longer...but can spoil a good nap. The Lance's Counter-thrust is a winner.
It lets ya block right away, and if it
works, you'll instantly counterattack. If I can let you in on a little secret:
the more ammo you've got packed away, the
harder the Gunlance's Burst Fire hits!  Once you've mastered the Switch Axe's
Morph Slash, you'll find you've got a lot
more mogility. ...Uh, I mean "mobility."  ...Wait! No I don't. I mean "mogility"!
"Mogility" sounds a hundred times better! The Charge Blade has two kinds of
phials -- you've got your Impact
Phials, and your Element Phials. They do different things, so make sure
you don't mix 'em up.  Oh, have you been using your Kinsect to
collect essences? If you combine a White Essence with a
Red or Orange Essence, you can give your
offense or defense an extra boost. For the Light Bowgun, I recommend
elemental and abnormal status ammo.
After all, you'll be light on your feet.  That means you can harass the enemy and
look tremendous doing it. ...What's that?
I look tremendous too? Why thank you. For the Heavy Bowgun, I recommend
Clust S, Pierce S, and Crag S. After all,
firepower is the weapon's sellin' point.  Hunker down and give those monsters a
faceful of hurt, I say! Tell me, have you been using the Bow's
Arc Shot? It saps away a monster's
Stamina faster than you can say "winded." Zzz... Wuhwuhwuhwuh... Huh?! Oh, it's you.
So whaddaya think about my village?
That's a nice wind blowin', innit? If trouble ever starts to brew, the wind
comes and blows it right to kingdom come.  'Course, I'll have been sleepin' through
it anyway, heh.  Zzz... Wuhwuhwuhwuh... Huh?!
Oh. Say, does that whale of yours
really fly? I wish I could fly.  Fly, and have a nap up there in a
soft fluffy cloud...  Hunh? Oh, it's you. If it's the Grand
Guru you're after, he's in the Shrine.
Got a letter from his brother, he did. I remember the lad. He left the village
years ago to explore the wild frontiers
of the world. That's how his little brother became the
Grand Guru you know and love, heh! Brr... Have you heard all the thunder and
lightning lately? Yours truly can hardly
sleep, and that's sayin' something.  The young sprogs over there claim they
saw lightning walking. Now that's a
sight I'd like to see... Hunh? Oh, it's you.
The Grand Guru was lookin' for ya.
He's back there in the Shrine. I think he wants to pull a favor, heh.  Hunh? Oh, it's you. I hear you've been a
good listener and even better helper for
all the folks in Cathar. Many thanks! Hope ya don't mind if we ask you for a few
more favors down the line. *yawn*  In the meantime, you ought to go out on
some Quests and work on increasing your
HR so...you can... *snore*  What's that? Your Bow's Arc Shot hit
a hunting buddy? Oh my. Awkward... If I were you, I'd look the other way
and pretend...I was...asleep... *snore* Zzz... Wuhwuhwuhwuh... *snort* Hunh?  Oh, it's you. Is it true you got some
kind of falcon medal? Mighty impressive...
A true feat. Oh no, don't worry. I'm plenty excited.
See? Wide awake! Wide...awake... *snore*



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC043 (Maximeld XIV).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC043 (Maximeld XIV).txt
SIZE: 4843 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:38:22
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 7a7aa5ce9358761b1daaa4e0eddae9f059d5386c1d1e292c24c95a547afe61d4
================================================================================

﻿Now, what can I duju for yuju?  The Great Maximeld XIV,
always at your service! Hiya hiya, nice to meetcha.
I've got a present for you, but your
Item Box is full of items. Come back once you've made some space,
okay-kay?  Hunter hunter! What do we do?
Monsters on the mountain are going
berserk! There's a messenger here from the Guild.
Go see what he has to say, kay?  Hunter hunter, the Grand Guru is
waiting for you in the Shrine.
It's right through that gate. Remember to clear your mind and mind
your manners.  I'm the fourteenth Melder, so I can't
say for assuredly sure, but...  What if a crisis like this one is how
Melding came about in the first place?  Do you think my fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-
fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-
forefather witnessed the Calamity? Hmm... Frenzy Crystals can be found in the
vicinity of Cathar. But nobody knows where THEY came from.
They're the jujiest of all the juju. Melding originally originated right
here in Cathar. It's survived fourteen glorious
generations and lives on with me, the
Great Maximeld XIV. You can't use Frenzy Crystals by
themselves.  Their juju only kicks in when you Meld
them with items and Talismans. The Crystals will multiply your items
and re-form new Talismans from the old
ones. We're talking juju out the wazooju!  Frenzy Crystals come in a few
variable varieties. Bring any that you find to me and I'll
work my juju just for yuju!  Choose "Meld Talisman" and use Frenzy
Crystals and three Talismans to
create a new Talisman.  Have lots of extra Talismans? Struggling
with your Talismanagement? Then Melding
is the juju for yuju!  Planning lots of hunts, Hunter? You can
book me to Meld up to three rounds of
Talismans, so triple up on that juju! Choose "Meld Items" to use a Frenzy
Crystal to multiply certain items.  Don't skimp on the Frenzy Crystals.
Juju those suckers into stuff you can use!  Hunter hunter, are you looking for the
great, Grand Guru? You'll find him
in the Shrine.  His elder brother sent him a letterful
of letters, I wonder what it said? Hunter hunter, the great, Grand Guru
was looking for yu-ru. Go see him in the Shrine, okay-kay? Hiya hiya, off to hunt with your
friendly friends? May the juju be
with yuju! Hiya hiya, nice to meetcha.
I saw you arrive on the whale.  I'm Cathar's  Melding Pot  master --
the fourteenth in a long line of Melders,
in factual fact. But folks around here just call me
Maximeld.  Melding is some powerful juju. My fore-
fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-fore-
fore-fore-fore-forefather invented it! Tell me, what do you know about   Frenzy
Crystals ? They're a type of item. Melders like me can use them to
  multiply certain items   and  re-form Talismans . Have you got any extra Talismans sitting
around-round? Then that's a good time to
try the Melding juju. Bring me three Talismans you don't need
and the required Frenzy Crystals... And I'll toss them into this here juju
pot and give them a little swish swish.  Once the Melding is done, out pops a
brand new Talisman!  It takes a little time for the juju to
jujify, though, so you'll have to wait
till you get back from a hunt.  For more informative info, check out
 Help   in the upper left corner of the
Touch Screen.  I'd like to present this present to
get you started, okay-kay?  If you find any Frenzy Crystals, bring
them on by, and I'll break out the juju
just for yuju! Hunter hunter! Good news.
I studied my buns off and devised some
brand new melding methods. Try giving them a try, okay-kay?  Hunter hunter! I need help.
Can you spare me a moment?  Picture this: The great Maximeld went
out to pick some Mistentoe so he could
make everyone some savvy salves. Then, all of a sudden, right behind him
he feels a gust of hot, breathy breath!
It was a  Zinogre ! Gasp! Egad! The horror! The Zinogre let out a low groan
and spewed this dark, icky ichor...
*shudder* I'm really worried about the village,
so I filed a Quest with the Guildmarm
called  " Advanced: Howling for Blood ."  You've got to help us, Hunter!
Pretty please with peas on top?  Thanks for hunting the Zinogre,
Hunter. Now the village will be able to
sleep tight at night, right?  I told the Elder you came to the rescue
and he said he might ask you a favor, too.
I really really hope you don't mind. Wow, Hunter! I heard you completed a
really really difficult hunt. What a
remarkably remark-worthy achievement. I'll have to double down if my juju is
ever going to live up to yuju! Hunter hunter! Good news.
I studied my sandals off and came
up with some new Melding juju!  I've got two new methods: Those passed down from my
forefathers, and those that I've
cooked up myself!  And that's not all. Now I'm able to
multiply new items, too! Let me know if yuju want
to try the new juju!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC044 (Cathar Grand Guru).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC044 (Cathar Grand Guru).txt
SIZE: 7761 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:38:38
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0b76235b27f549cb526375560747e34cb9c9990e21195272e8e10ba5706fbe72
================================================================================

﻿Does the crest on this wall strike you
as familiar? It originates from Cathar.  I and the Grand Gurus before me have
revered this sigil for generations.
It safeguards the Sanctuary. You may have noticed a large door with a
matching sigil behind the base camp on
Heaven's Mount. That door leads to the Sanctuary.
What manner of elder dragon could have
broken the seal and gotten inside? Did the first Grand Guru who set the
Sanctuary's borders lay eyes on
the very same beast? I wonder still what unspeakable thoughts
he hoped to shut out when he built that
giant door.  The elder dragon's influence extends to
all living things in its lair, the
Sanctuary... No wonder, then, that it was sealed
behind that great door so that neither
villager nor beast could enter.  But the elder dragon cannot be blamed
for simply living. A hunter like you
must have understood that at once. It took me a while longer to accept it,
but I see now that the sigil was meant
to protect the monster as much as us.  Long ago, the people of Cathar must have
made their peace with the mountain, or
else why would they have stayed?  What I feared was my neighbor all along.
The revelation has left my heart asway.  Hunter, I must ask you a favor. For more years than man can count, the
dragon's very existence has wrought great
change in every creature around it.  Like a maelstrom, but free of malice,
it tears across our world. When you face
it, I ask that you see it for all it is. And then you must tell Cathar's children,
so they can tell their children, and the
truth will never be forgotten. Please. My elder brother fancied himself a sort
of explorer. As a boy, he regarded no
frontier as too far, or too perilous. But when the two of us wandered into the
mountain, we were beset by monsters and
fled home to the scolding of our lives...  He later told me that was the first time
he ever associated "monsters" with "fear." Ha ha ha! But listen to me, prattling on.
Unravel a happy memory, and you risk
losing the thread! As you have probably deduced, Cathar gets
very few visitors, even hunters.  Brother believed that if our village
was to expand, safety must come first --
and for that, he sought a hunter. If safety is grains in the hand, then
only a hunter's hands are big enough to
hold it all, he used to say.  I am truly glad to hear Brother is in
good health. How I long to see him! What land will he discover next?
Can any soil stop those great feet?
Cathar deserves to see him.  Hunter, thank you for facing the
Kushala Daora. Cathar will do all in its power to
ensure you prevail.  I hear the others saddled you with many
a request simply to avoid troubling me. Thank you, Hunter. I am filled with
gratitude at every moment all for the good
deeds you have done. I suppose I ought to have a word with the
villagers for harassing you without
telling me! Ha ha ha! But I must be as incorrigible as they are,
because their actions warm my heart. What is wrong? You look as though you
have something to say.  ...You want me to take care of myself
while you train at the Gathering Hall?
Perhaps I should worry about you! Ha ha. Friends make the world a grander place.
The impossible for one becomes possible
for many, in life as well as in the hunt. As soon as I felt that unsettling wind
atop the mountain, I knew the time would
soon come to take my place here.  All the same, though, I did not expect
today to be the day. It pleases me to finally meet you, Hunter.
I am the Grand Guru, a title my
many predecessors also held. ...Pfft! And I think that will suffice
for serious talk, don't you? Ha ha!
Sorry for the imposing introduction. After all, you and I have already met.
That was me tilling the fields!  To make a long story short, the previous
Grand Guru stepped down and I
got the job. I may be new at it, but the people of
Cathar have been supportive while I
get myself up to speed. Now! If we can move past my personal
history... The Caravaneer and Ace Hunters
enlightened me about the situation.  A black haze has caused monsters in
the area to lose their minds...
The elder dragon's haze.  The elder dragon has broken through
the sigil gate and entered the
 Sanctuary . It never even crossed my mind that the
Calamity history mentions might have been
caused by an elder dragon. But looking back at the records through
that new lens, I must say I find the
theory utterly convincing. Clearly the people of Cathar sealed the
elder dragon's lair to prevent it from
infecting every creature around it.  Do you know the Song of Cathar, Hunter?
It is an old song...  "If ever eyes of darkness widen
A light from yonder soon will break "But if the land the light should brighten
A shadow wanders in its wake "If dawn is sent to slay the night
And chase its minions underground  "Then when dusk makes the day take flight
Beneath its pinions night rebounds  "But do not cry, my sons and daughters
Life must leave to come again  "And when it does, it springs like water
A great reprieve to end all pain."
...And then, the song swells to a refrain:  "Turn now, Heaven's Wheel!
Turn, turn, that we may heal!" ...Beautiful, isn't it? Hunter, you have my permission to enter
the Sanctuary.  I have been watching you for some time,
ever since my days tending the fields.  I know you and your Caravan are worthy
of this challenge. You have both my
admiration and my trust. Hmm, what to do... There is no harm in
being cautious...  Ah! Hunter. You surprised me.
...This? I am so glad you asked!  A letter came from my elder brother.
How happy that makes me! It has been far
too long since we last spoke. Brother apparently went on to become
chief of a place called Jumbo Village. However, he has since passed those duties
to a dear friend and left to explore new
frontiers. That is so like him!  But look here. Part of his letter I
find very distressing. See? "How are you faring? I worry about you
all the time.  "Alas, needless worrying is a brother's
curse. But I know you are capable, which
is why I entrusted the village to you. "An acquaintance at the Dragonwatch sent me
ill tidings which I feel I must share.
Mark my words well.  "The Dragonwatch believes an  elder dragon
will descend upon your village  very soon. "The same elder dragon beset Jumbo Village,
but we and the hunter whose services we
acquired were able to drive it away.  "I pray every day for the health and
happiness of you and all Cathar. Rally
the village and stand tall, Brother!" Hmm... Elder dragons are a force of
nature beyond reckoning. The villagers of
Cathar are powerless against it.  After that business with the
Shagaru Magala, I must do a better
job of protecting the others from harm. But an elder dragon? Troubling indeed...  The villagers told me everything. You
answered their prayers and drove the
menace away. Thank you... Thank you.
I only hope no harm befell you. The others, bless them, put you through
so much just to avoid troubling me. Now, I fear, I must ask you my own favor
to put their hearts at ease. The   Kushala Daora  has arrived in
Cathar exactly as Brother foretold. Mantled in wind, the elder dragon tears
across the land, weaving great storms in
its wake. It is extremely dangerous. Brother said Jumbo Village only managed
to weather its wrath because they received
a hunter's help. Might I ask you the same favor?
Work with me and Cathar to stop the elder
dragon. You are the one I trust most. I have already filed a Quest with the
Guildmarm called  " Advanced: Wicked Wings  ."  Let Cathar's support and prayers be your
greatest weapon should you take this
mighty task on. The Kushala Daora is coming, and the
village needs you.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC045 (Cathar Elder).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC045 (Cathar Elder).txt
SIZE: 12670 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:39:28
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0396923ef189f48b4d3b38b31cab4ef26b77a4c2c6e8aaee9e828bc5da8b4ce5
================================================================================

﻿That "Article" or whatever must absolutely,
definatiously stay under yer friend's hat,
ya hear?! It'd scare the village silly!  I wouldn't even let ya mention the blasted
thing if you hadn't already come up with a
clever euphe...euphonium? ...A clever name. Oh, so you want to know about the
Melding Pot, do ya? Splendid! Marviciously splendid!
Curiosity is the mark of an able mind,
I say.  Melding is an ancient art Cathar
has passed down for generations. That little feller over there is the 14th
in his line to master its magical juju! This gate? You want to go inside?
Ha ha, wouldn't that be something...  SOMETHING HORRICIOUSLY AWFUL!
The   Shrine   is on the other
side of this gate. It's OFF LIMITS!  I hope ya don't mind moseying over to
Heaven's Mount and checking on the
monsters there.  If ya DO see any monsters with the Frenzy,
you hurry back here lickety-splash and fill
me in, ya got it? Right then.  Oh dear... I hope none of this
terribaffling business reaches the
Grand Guru's gloriferous ears...  Ack! Eek! Argh! Et cetera!  A monster with the Frenzy has stormed
up Heaven's Mount!  The apocalisp is nigh! Armagelding is
upon us!  The Grand Guru is waiting for ya in
the Shrine. It's right through the gate here.
D-d-don't be nervous. ...Deep breaths.  Never fear. The young Wyverian from the
Smithy put the children on the airship
and had them taken somewhere safe. Lord Wycoon has arranged for supplies,
and the cook has been dishing out his
usual nutritious meals.  Little Miss Forge is minding the elderly
and the lady in green has assured all will
be apricots with you on the job.  We try not to let on that we can see her
poor hands shaking...  Hunter, let me tell ya: You're blessed
to have a Caravan full of so many
compassionastic folks. At times like these, I hafta do all in
my power to look after the Grand Guru. He's like a grandson to us all. I'm beggin' ya, Hunter: Save our village!
Save our mountain! Save my vocabulabbery! I fear there's little hope left for any
of them... *sniff*  Didja know that Cathar is sometimes
called the Village of the Crying Wind?  Here, listen... Ya hear it? That wind is
said to blow away all evility. Of all the Wyverian villages in our land
of Shiki, Cathar stands at the
highest almightitude. For many long ages the mountain has been
a brother in life, a parent to guard us,
a child to watch over.  The Grand Guru in the Shrine
is a living reminder of that covenancery.  As ya can see, Cathar doesn't exactly
feature the most pedestriatious landscape.  Ya'd have to be crazy to climb up the
mountain and cross that flimsy old bridge
with yer pack.  Then again, ya'd have to be even more
nuts to fly here in a giant whale, so
go figure.  Hm? Ya wanna know about the Calamity?
Well, the thing about calamities is that
they don't leave many witnesses. So while we don't have much in the way
of facts, we do have a fairy tale or two
that insinurate what transpirated.  Thing is, though, they all end with the
usual "happily ever after." Not sure what
that says about the Calamity... Ah, Hunter! I always know you've
arrived because Cathar's children shriek
with delight. They love ya dearily. In fact, they're quite fond of everyone
in the Caravan. And a good thing, too!  With my back the way it is these days,
I'm not the human jungling gym I used
to be, heh heh.  ...Hm? Ah, the spinning bits back there?
Those are Windwheels. Bet ya've never
seen beaut's like THEM before! Everyone in Cathar loves listenin' as they
conversate with the wind.  We place them anywhere we want to protect
from the forces of evility, ya follow?
They're very precious ornamentals. Ah, Hunter! What's ailin' ya? Want to
hear an old tale or two? Let's see... Do you know the one about the jabberin'
Windwheel? No? Okay then. Long ago, a black wind came to ravagize
the mountaintop. The Windwheel heard it
comin', and spun furiously to warn us.  ...When my grandpap told me the story as a
wee boy, I was so proud of the Windwheel
that I wept for joy. Attaboy, Windwheel!  Ah, Hunter! That young feller who runs
yer Smithy is quite the gentleman.
The children love him!  Hm? Wh-what?! Ya say his grandpap was BORN
in Cathar? In-concredible! I suppose what life leaves Cathar is
destined to return. *sniff*  Ah, Hunter! Lookin' for the Grand Guru?
He's in the Shrine. Sounds like he received some kind of
correspondensation from his brother.
A letter! He's tickled pink.  And that's how we want him to stay: happy!
Today's a good day! And he'll be even
more delighted to see you! Ah, a Hunter-kitty combo! I hear you
capturated the stray Seltas.
Thanks a heap!  I knew I banked on the right cross-
species team. Anyway, the tykes have been goin' on and
on about the lightning. I hope it's not a
dire omen. Ah, Hunter! The Grand Guru was looking
for ya.  I can't believe that flyin' menace is
headed straight for our village!
What drat-nastical luck! Do me a favor and see what the Grand Guru
has to say about the whole thing. Ah, Hunter! Thanks to you, we were able to
shield the Grand Guru from any
inauspicuatious tidings.  I might call on yer services again at
this rate! Keep workin' at that HR and
robustify yerself in the meantime, heh.  Huntin' with friends today? Good to hear!
That's what I call syner...symba...
*cough* That's what I call teamwork.  Hmm? What have we here? Travelators?
How the heck did ya get up here?!  Salutations, old one! Is this Cathar? It sure is. Village of the Crying Wind! Cathar is constantially buffeted by a
celestial gale. And if ya listen... See?
You can hear it! That's the sound of the wind blowin'
evility right back where it came from.
Hmph! Take that evility!  We haven't got much here but Wyverians,
but make yerself at home, if ya like. Thanks, old one. We'll take y'up on
that kind offer.  Well, I hate to jump right into the hard
questions, but have y'ever laid eyes on
this Article before? We came all the way to Cathar to figure
out wh--  Ack! Eek! Gods and monsters!  Is that a-- Don't tell me it's a--  Where'd ya get that, young'un?
Speak up!  Aha! So ya know what it is. Stupendous! Let's just say it fell into my hands.
Now finish yer danged sentences and tell
me what it IS -- please! Hmmrrgh...  It's a  bad omen  , is what it is.
It spells nothin' but trouble for me and
the other villagers.  Way back before time was time, there
was a terrible Calamity at Heaven's Mount. Monsters lost their minds -- they went
berserkers and started tearin' everything
in sight apart.  Nobody knows why.
Soon Heaven's Mount was no better
than a field of corpses and carcasses.  The history books, if ya believe 'em,
describified the whole affair as the "winds
of evility consuming the mount."  I say it's all one big fairy tale,
but people have their superstitions. That "Article" of yers comes from the site
of the Calamity, where the winds of evility
struck.  Ever since, the place has been known
as the   Sanctuary .
Nobody's allowed inside no more.  The   Sanctuary?  Yep. The land protected by the sigil. Anyway, let's get one thing clear!  You keep that "Article" thing under
yer hat, ya hear?! Hmph.  "Hmph" is right. Somethin' tells me we
haven't squeezed all the secrets out of
him just yet, Kindred Hunter.  Let's do the rounds and see what
other info turns up. Ah, Hunter. Why the long face?  ...What's that about the Heaven's Mount?
The Congalala went for dessert?  ...WHAT?!
The Congalala went b-b-BERSERK?!
Gods and monsters, this is terrifible! That sounds like the Calamity all
over again! Grrr... Nngh... Darn-blast it!  I'll just b-bite the bullet and report
this to the  Grand Guru  .
There's no other w-w-way! ...Huh? Ya want to know where he is?
I'm glad y'asked!  The Grand Guru is a hallowed figure
who's been protectin' the mountain for
ages. Naturally, he has a special home!  That home is right on the other side of
this door, in the   Shrine  . Generations of Grand Gurus have
residified there. They are not permitted
to leave.  ...Ah! I just had an idea. What we need
is accuratiable informations. Let's see...  Hunter! I hate to put ya through the
trouble, but could you head for the
Heaven's Mount and   check on the monsters ? If any of them are acting funny -- like,
berserkers funny -- then report back
to me on the triple. Got it?  Welcome back, Hunter. How'd it go?  Did you see any frenzied monsters on
Heaven's Mount?  ...Hmph. No sightings, huh? Well, good! That's one less piece of bad
news I have to whisperate into the
Grand Guru's sensitive aural canal. Sorry for the trouble, but I sure do
appreciate a little positative thinkin'
for a--  ...Hm? That's odd. Looks like the   lady
in green  is tryin' to get yer attention.  What's gotten into her? She looks all
riled up. Ack! Eek! Argh! Et cetera!
The monsters on Heaven's Mount have
started to go berserkers!  It's like the C-C-C-Cala-Calama...
It's bad news all over again!  Ah! Looks like we have a new  guest .
Go see what the fuss is all about!  Aha! So you're on to me...  I'd heard someone was tryin' to track me
down, but who'da thunk it was you. Ha! Enough with the ruse! See me for who I
truly am -- the  Don of the Egg Syndicate  ! What a line, by the way. "Enough with
the ruse"? I think I waited a half a
century to bust that one out. Anyway.  I'm gettin' on in my years. Back in the
day I could've taken ya, but it's time to
pass the torch to someone younger.  ...And if you're wondering when "back in
the day" is, there is no "back in the
day." I just said that for effect. Anyway, if you want to be the new don,
you're gonna have to pass my little
examinification, capiche?  That's right -- an  egg delivery  ! I filed a Quest with the lady in green
called   " Egg-straction: Final Mission  ."  You might think you're the only one in
the running for top eggmeister -- and
I ain't tellin' ya if you're wrong!  BWA HA HA HA HA!  How was that? Was that a good crime
lord laugh? ...I could do it again?
...No?  So, Hunter. I see ya put all yer eggs
in my basket. As you should!  I hereby name you the new Don of the Egg
Syndicate! The world is your omelet! All those other would-be dons who didn't
really exist anyway can kiss the position
GOOD-BYE. Sing it with me! "We're egg-cellent! Egg-cellent!  "Hard-boiled! Never spoiled! For their
 golden treasure we toil-ed! "We endure the grind, to rob them blind,
 fresh from a monster's behind!  (Music swells up)
"We're egg-cellent! Egg-cellent! It's true! "We're egg-cellent! Egg-cellent! And you?"  Whew! What a song. Always gets me a
bit emotional at the end there... ...But if ya tell the Grand Guru about
any of this, I'll scramble ya in yer sleep,
Don or no Don. Ah, Hunter. Get a load of this!
The Grand Guru received a letter! It's from his dear elder brother.
I remember him! Wonder how he's holdin'
up these days...  What? Ya say his brother's worried about
the village? I knew he had a heart of
gold, but we're not his problem anymore. I'd better flex my geriatrified muscles
and do something before I put him
through too much trouble. They say a  Seltas   has come down
from Heaven's Mount. While looking for food, it musta gotten
lost and wanderated down the mountain.  Of course, that spells a pain in the
monster rump for the locals... From what I hear, it hasn't done enough
damage to warrant bein' put down.
And I am technically a pacifist...  I got it! Do me a solid and   capture the
Seltas  , then lead it back up
the mountain. Whaddaya say?  I filed a Quest with the lady in green.
It's called   " Catch and Release ."  You can take care of this, right?
You're like one of those monster
whisperers or something. You and your cat-complice will soothe
the savage beast in no time flat!
Right? Right! *Sniff* Is there no end to the
Grand Guru's mercy? He forgave me
for keeping him out of the loop. I won't ever trouble him again, I swear
it this time! Going forward, I'll work WITH him to keep
Cathar safe!  Thanks for takin' care of all my foolish
requestions and helpin' me to see
the light. I don't know where you're from, but this
is yer second home now, I promise ya that. You're like a grandson to me.
A grandson to all of Cathar!  Nice medal! Is that a falcon with its
wings spread? Ya did good, Hunter.  I still remember the day we met and I
thought ya were a useless dullardunce.  ...I probably shouldn't have told ya
that, huh? Anyway. Honesty is the
best policy! Sometimes!  Sorry I didn't trust ya. I can admit I
was wrong. After all, you're like a
grandson to me now. To all of Cathar!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC046 (Spittle-ful Boy).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC046 (Spittle-ful Boy).txt
SIZE: 5060 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:39:42
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 5a35ab8628334457d2333475b052256d27273d383c3dacc2e095c881963ac610
================================================================================

﻿Whoa! Cool! Whales can FLY?!
That's AMAZTHING!  You're a hunter, right?
Can you hunt the big ugly monkey thing
that's tearing apart Heaven? Heh heh. You like my Windwheel?
The Grand Guru gave it to me and
it spins WAY BETTER than anyone else's!  Ah ah aah. HANDSTH OFF!
MY good luck charm! Y-you can't have it!  Hi there, hunter! ...Oh, you're looking
for the Elder? He's down that way.  No, no -- THAT way. I bet he's back there
having a canipfth...a canipsh... *sigh*
A panic attack or something.  Hi there, hunter! The Elder was looking
for you. He was all in a huff.  So what's going on up on Heaven?
Did you see anything AWETHOME out there?
...Oh, sorry. Did it again. That green lady's book must be THUPER
interesting, because she keeps flashing
this dopey smile while she reads. Well, dopey or creepy.
I'm not really sure which. The Grand Guru has got to be the
nicest Guru EFFTHAR! He never says no when I want to go out
and play and he never covers his face
when I talk... I really like him.  Sometimes I hear this really loud
thunder coming from Heaven -- even when
it's sunny out, which is SO STHRANGE. Earlier I looked up at the sun like
I'm not supposed to and I saw this great
big shadow. It was HUMONGOUSTH!  Just between you and me, I think it
was a monster, but don't tell.  The Elder is always running around
worrying about THOMETHING. He has no compo...composh... He can't
keep his cool at all. And he's SO
SUPERTHITIOUS!  You'd hardly know he was a Wyverian.  Once, after coming back from Heaven, the
Elder told me very sternly to run away if
a Congalala points its butt at me. Weird, huh? He was groaning all day and
wouldn't eat a thing. What could
POSSTHIBLY gross someone out like that?  Ooh! Hunter!
Wanna hear something AWETHOME? The Seltas is real small, but just
one male is strong enough to pick up a
HUMONGOUSTH female! Whoa. The Congalala TOTALLY LOVESTH food.
It even eats meat you've tampered with! I like meat too, but that would NEFFTHAR
work on me. Nope, no sir!  My favorite food? Wyverian omelets
of course! YUM! *drool*
Wait... Why do you ask?  Hi there, Hunter! Did you hear?
The Grand Guru got a letter from
his big brother. He wanted to read it alone in the
Shrine because he said it's
THUPER important! ...Oh, yuck. Sorry. Don't tell the Grand Guru about the
walking lightning or he'll get real
worried!  It's OUR LITTLE THEECRET. We can handle
this menace alone!  Ooh! Hunter! Thanks for getting rid
of the walking lightning. You're the
BETHST!  Oh, and the Grand Guru was looking
for you. He's in the Shrine. I hope it's not another big, scary
MONSTHER! ...Oops. Thanks, Hunter! You TOTALLY got rid of
that big ugly scary evil monster.
...YESSSSSSTH! Your HR must be, like, through the roof.
Will you sign my arm?! Whoa, you have hunting friends to
hunt with? That is so AMAZTHING!  Whoa! Cool! Your whale is HUMONGOUSTH!
...Oh, sorry. Just wipe that off.  So, are you a hunter? Are ya, are ya?
That is so cool!  I saw you and that guy in the hat arrive
in your big, awesome whale!  ...Huh? The guy in the hat?
Oh, he's over there.  Like, WAY over there. I think he's
talking to the Elder near the gate to
the  Shrine  . He was showing off some kind of big,
STHPARKLY thing he took out of his hat--
...Oh, sorry again. Ooh ooh! Hey, Hunter! Is it true you did
the Elder some kind of big favor?  I know you captured the Seltas.
You can't pull the wool over MY EYESTH!
...Oh, sorry. So, do you think you could do me a
favor next?  I'll let you in on a little secret.
I saw   walking lightning !
It was blue, a-and really AMAZTHING!  I'm really glad I snuck off to the
mountain to play and-- Uh! A-and do the really important errands
I was totally sent there to do, yuh-huh.  Anyway, I thought lightning was supposed
to be powerful, cool, calm, and collected.
But this lightning ROARED at me!  I was so scared I ran home. Please don't
tell the Grand Guru about this.
PLEEZTH? He was so happy to get his letter and I
don't want some monster to ruin it
for him. I asked the green lady to write up a
Quest for me. It's called, umm...
Oh yeah! It's called:  " See the Lightning ."  So whaddaya say? Help me get rid of
that lightning WUNTH AND FOR ALL!
...Oh, sorry. That one was juicy. Did you really take out that
Kushala Daora? Whoa! AMAZTHING!  I'd be a lot happier if the Grand Guru
didn't chew me out, though.  He was mad I went to the mountain alone
and made me promise never to do anything
that dangerous again...  Sometimes he's just no fun at all!
But I still felt kind of warm and fuzzy
when he yelled at me... Weird. Ooh ooh! Hunter! Is it true you did some
kind of THUPER-DUPER QUEST? Let me see
your medal! LET ME STHEE! Whoa... This is incredible!
...But why is it covered in spittle?  Anyway, the Grand Guru told me this
medal is only given to hunters who s...
uh, surmount the greatest of challenges.  Do you think I could get one someday?
I don't know what "surmount" means, but
I'd sure like to be more like you.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC047 (Girl with Wary Look).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC047 (Girl with Wary Look).txt
SIZE: 2290 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:39:54
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 66a22232daf7c1c66f563a817b828c8eca1202c1d090f6916f41b8a785e9cd86
================================================================================

﻿*gasp* Stranger! H...hi there... Welcome to C-Cathar.  If you're looking for the Elder, he's
down that way. He's the grown-up humming
the happy song.  ...... 

*gasp* Stranger! H...hi there... Welcome to C-Cathar.  The Grand Guru told me I should always
greet people when I see them.  

You know, you're not supposed to go
to the mountain.  It's a really special place and you're
NOT allowed to play there. 

The Grand Guru made me this Windwheel,
and it's really special. Even a light
breeze makes it spin.  

H-hi there. I think the Elder is looking
for you, because he keeps mumbling,
"Is the hunter back? Is the hunter back?"  

The Grand Guru made me this Windwheel,
and it's really special. Even a light
breeze makes it spin.  

Hunter, everybody says you flew here,
but that's not true, is it? Birds can fly, but not whales!  

The Grand Guru knows EVERYTHING.
You should learn from him, too.  He knows all about the mountain and how
to predict the weather and he teaches us
all kinds of amazing things. And he tells the best fairy tales of
ANYONE I know. 

The Grand Guru helped me make medicine
out of Mistentoe.  He said mine turned out really good,
so I gave him a big hug. 

Did you know that if a Remobra
hears a really loud noise it'll
fall to the ground?  I guess monsters get scared, too.
Do you get scared?  

Ioprey are bright red and jump
around -- boing, boing! And they spit
poison too, blegh! You should be careful.  

The Konchu is a really funny one.
When you poke it, it curls up into a
ball and rolls around all over the place.  ...Oh! P-please don't tell anyone that I
poked a Konchu.  

The Grand Guru is in the Shrine.
He got a really important letter.  Do you ever get letters? ...Oh, wow!  

Oh! H-hi there. The Grand Guru wants
to see you. He's in the Shrine.  But he was making a really scary face
and I'm soooooo worried...  

Hunter, where do you train to get
stronger? The Gathering Hall? Wow! Can I come there next time?  

Is it true that strangers aren't
strangers anymore once you go hunting
with them? That's really great!  

Is it true you finished the hardest
Cara...Carana...Cavanar...the toughest
hat-guy challenge? That must have been soooooo hard!
Congratulations!  Now you're almost as nice as the
Grand Guru, but I won't give you a hug.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC050 (Guild Master).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC050 (Guild Master).txt
SIZE: 19594 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 17:40:06
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: fa1b8a24b928a3050a2955b8f80f7d4b77a27405580db3a36f546a3cd38529b9
================================================================================

﻿...Wait. I can't give you anything if you
come here with your Item Box pre-stuffed! Go empty out some things and drop
by again. Feh heh!  To join a friend's Quest, check the
Quest Board and point at the Quest
you want in on. Just "select" it!  If you're the one hosting, make sure you
don't take off for the Quest until your
hunting companions are ready.  'Cause if you do, you'll leave the
other unlucky hunters stranded with jaws
dropped back at the Gathering Hall. I suppose you know you've got to pay a
Quest Fee to undertake a Quest, right? But don't you worry -- you get all your
money back just as long as you complete
the Quest. Piece of cake, right? Feh heh! Your HR is one way to gauge where your
hunting abilities stand. You can't participate in some Quests if
your HR isn't up to scratch, so why not
make an effort to raise it? Feh heh! Trust me! There's no downside. Have you been trading Guild Cards?
The hunting world's gone social, and you
don't want to be the one who's not hip! You can trade cards directly, of course,
but you can also grab new Guild Cards
on the fly via StreetPass. If you haven't set up StreetPass yet,
go talk to the Courier. Look for the Felyne with the red cap.
You can't miss him! Feh heh.  Have you sounded the Gong yet?
The Gong Lady's Gong.  Talk to her to change the preferences
for your Hunter for Hire Quests.  Find the right Quest and you might be
able to get that one material you've
been after. Or not... Feh heh. Did you know you can chat with other
hunters if you're hunting "online"?
Whatever that is!  Heck, you can chat from the Gathering
Hall or the village!  Since you'll probably have your hands full
during a Quest, you can only use Shoutouts
to get your message across. When chatting or editing a Shoutout,
remember that you can only enter up to
26 letters. Technology, feh heh!  Are you aware that you can send friend
requests to fellow hunters by touching
"Friends" on the Touch Screen?  If that hunter happens to be on the
Internet, you can even go directly to
their Gathering Hall! Technology, I tell ya. Feh heh! If you want to know more about
Local Play or Online Multiplayer, then
have a gander at your Hunter's Notes. There's enough detailed info in there
to make your brain explode. Trust me!
Feh heh.  Have you popped open your World Map and
tried touching  Solo/Multiplayer   yet? You can use this to change your "online"
status. Whatever that means! These are the buttons you want to fiddle
with when you're deciding whether to play
with friends nearby or far away. When you want to play alone, open the
World Map and touch "Solo/Multiplayer"
and select " Solo  ."  Your status will be changed to "Offline"
so you can hunt at your leisure.
Feh heh!  Have you made an Online
Gathering Hall yet? When you make a Gathering Hall, you
can set up a Passcode to keep unwanted
hunters out of your hair. Feh heh! When you want to play with hunters
nearby, open the World Map and touch
"Solo/Multiplayer" and select " Local Play  ."  Your status will be set to "local wireless"
so you can shoot companions knowing looks
in the flesh while you hunt. Feh heh! When you want to play with hunters around
the world, open the World Map and touch
"Solo/Multiplayer" then " Online Multiplayer  ."  Your status will be changed to "Internet"
so you can team up with hunters who
AREN'T REALLY THERE WITH YOU. Magical!  Feh heh heh! Welcome to the
  Gathering Hall  , where we provide the
butter for your adventure sandwich!  I run the place on behalf of the Hunter's
Guild, which exists purely for folks like
you. So nice to meetcha and all that. Now, you've probably already heard that
Val Habar revolves around the
Gathering Hall. Hunters like you hunt monsters, which
draws caravans looking to hire ya, which
helps the big marketplace here prosper.  So I shouldn't have to explain that my
particular Gathering Hall specializes
in caravan hunters.  Without hunters, a caravan is just a
caravan't! ...That's what I WISH my daddy
used to say, but my daddy was boring.  At any rate, you should meet plenty of
hunters here, so try and make friends.
Next up:  hunter registration ! ...All done! We're all about
lickety-split here. Feh heh! You're
cleared for Gathering Hall Quests now. Talk to all these charming young ladies
if you want the details.  Okay? Then happy hunting! Show me what
you've got. I wanna see you really pop out
of the crowd! (Feh heh, as if.) Oh, right, let me give you a quick verbal
tour of the Gathering Hall. Every corner is designed for maximum
hunter enjoyment, and we've got a metric
monster dung-ton of corners in here.  First up: the   Canteen !
Head to the big table right in front of
the Gong and you can have yourself a meal.  Meals boost your Health and Stamina,
give you new Skills, and make you fart
a lot. Some of those things are useful! We've also got a nice little  Guild Store
that deals in all the usual hunter
must-haves. Do a good job out there, and we might be
able to hook you up with better supplies.
Feh heh! Okay, now for the nitty-gritty. Chances are you're gonna want to link
up with other hunters near and far for
a little co-op hunting, am'rite? What you've got to do is open up your
World Map and touch   Solo/
Multiplayer , whatever that means.  Select  Local Play   to play with folks around
you, or  Online Multiplayer   to play with folks
around the world. How 'bout that? Now, once you've got that figured out,
you can create your own Gathering Hall OR
look for friends' Gathering Halls. That miss touting the hammer over there
will help you change your Message and
Passcode for your Gathering Hall. If you're not sure how to get things
running, there's a bunch more info in those
 Hunter's Notes   of yours.  I know headbutting Jaggi is a heckuva
lot more fun than READING, pfft, but real
hunters know they've got to do both.  Now go get 'em, monster reader!
Feh heh!  I was waiting for you to roll in here,
you celebrity, you!  You're doing so dang fine a job out there
that the Guild has sent you an  Urgent
Quest  . Curious? Of course y'are! See, Urgent Quests are like your final
exam before you get bumped up to the
next grade. Complete the Quest and your   Hunter Rank
will go up  , clearing you for a whole new
slew of more challenging Quests. Feh heh!  Now, I had better elucidate you as to the
fine print. ...I know, READING, am'rite?
But I still got to do it.  Since Urgent Quests are YOUR final exam,
you only get credit if YOU accept the
Quest personally.  You can bring in friends to help, as long
as it's you calling the shots. (If I
were you, I'd pick strong friends!)  All right, so YOUR Urgent Quest is to
hunt a  Nerscylla . A lot of hunters zonk out from all the
abnormal statuses it inflicts, so make
sure you go in there plenty prepared. I'll be rooting for you here, surrounded
by all these beautiful women.  Feh heh! Nice work urging your way through
that Urgent Quest. Color me impressed! I've never seen a hunter get the better
of a Nerscylla this soon after
arriving. You must be a natural! Now that you've been bumped up to HR 2,
I expect great things from you, very
great things!  So don't let me down. Feh heh!  Feh heh! Well, here we are again.
Another day, another  Urgent Quest   with
your name written all over it! Literally! This time, the Guild wants you to wrangle
  Gore Magala . We're talking one
mysterious customer.  And it must be more dangerous than anything
you've faced, considering how many hunters
the Guild's already bounced off it!  One of the poor saps left a little nugget
of a hint for ya: "Beware the black mist."  Poor guy... And poor you! Feh heh!
Best of luck not getting torn into tiny
pieces. I believe in ya, mostly! My goodness, you did it again!
Are you some kind of Urgent Quest
machine? Did you pay the monster off?  Feh heh! I'm just pulling your chain. Congratulations on becoming a smarter,
stronger hunter. Your successes make me
look good too! Now that you've been bumped up to HR 3,
I can picture you changing the world
some day!  So don't let me down. Feh heh!  I heard you took a little detour to
Heaven's Mount. Feh heh!  What did ya think? The terrain's as
funky as my taste in women, am'rite?
Feh heh! Actually, I was born thereabouts.
My whole childhood was spent staring down
them mountains. My village used to tell stories about a
great snake that climbed the mountain
after it was wounded. In agony, it squeezed the mountain as
hard as it could, and that's why the
peak turned out the way it did.  But who believes in fairy tales, anyway?
Not this Guildmaster, nosirree!  Now get out there and hunt. And careful
you don't get gobbled up by any snakes
of the fictitious variety. Feh heh!  Guess what time it is. That's right --
it's   Urgent Quest   time!
Aren't you popular?  So, the question is: are you ready to
take on   Dah'ren Mohran  ? I'm sure you're still burning for a
rematch after it tried to smash Val Habar
to pieces, am'rite? Well, now you can, slugger! Hop in a
Dragonship and go turn that monster into
a gonester! If you make it back with your head still
on your shoulders, I'll treat you to
the   Guild's finest liquor . Feh heh!  Aha! Here comes the alpha and soon-
to-be omega of hunters! Just look at ya,
feh heh! We need to celebrate now that you've
jumped up to Hunter Rank 4.  Unfortunately, HR 4 isn't all steaks
and giggles. You're a High-rank Hunter
now, and that means hard work.  High-rank Quests will pit you against
tougher, nastier challenges than
anything you've tangled with before. Of course, they also provide a chance
to haul home tippity-top grade monster
materials. Hard work pays off! Anyway, direct any questions to the High
Questatrix. (I came up with that name,
because there's something wrong with me.) And remember: now that you're in the
big leagues, the whole world will soon
be watching!  So don't let me down. Feh heh!  Well, now, that didn't take long. I've got
another  Urgent Quest   here for you.  The Guild wants you to hunt a
  Pink Rathian  . But don't let that pretty-in-pink act
fool ya. She'll rip you gut to gullet
if you start in with the gaga eyes. Keep your focus, and I'll keep rooting
for you from home base here. Down with
the Queen, and long live you! Feh heh!  I never thought I'd see a hunter bury
Miss Pink Rathian as fast as you did.
Got a thing against pastel colors? Heh! You're a lot more entertaining than desk
work! It's distracting! I might lose my job
just because you're so interesting.  Then again, now that you've been bumped up
to HR 5, I'm gonna look fantastic on my
quarterly review...  Together, we're gonna rise to the top,
so don't let me down! Feh heh! *Sigh* Ah, it's you, hunter.
How's business?  There's just something about ships.
I always drift off and dream about my
old life. Those were the days!  I guess I never told you that I used to
have my own caravan. We scoured the world
trying to find truth behind legends!  My favorite was the tale of the great
snake that my home village believed
made Heaven's Mount the shape it is.  For a while there, I really believed I
would find the snake. Then one day it was
over, and I left the whole dream behind. Of course, that's how I wound up here and
got the fine job of bossing hunters like
you around, so no regrets. Feh heh!  Anyway, now that you know me a little
better, run along and hunt something truly
incredible. I need new dream material! You know, it's getting to the point where
I'd be more surprised NOT to wake up to
an  Urgent Quest   just for you.  This time the Guild is pitting you against
a  Black Gravios . You've got to be extra careful when it
flies into a rage. It's got some seriously
nasty tricks up its sleeve, or so I hear. Then again, you probably have a few of
your own. Feh heh! Now get out there and
work some hunting magic.  Well, well. Look what amazing hunter
just reached Hunter Rank 6! What does it
take to stop you? If you skyrocket any further, we'll
all have to pull out our telescopes to
see ya! Feh heh. Now that you've been bumped up to HR 6,
I have a feeling you'll pull out even
more surprises. So don't let me down. Feh heh!  Oh look! An   Urgent Quest   just for you.
Never seen one of THOSE before, am'rite?
Feh heh heh!  On your plate this time is
 Shagaru Magala  . An elder dragon?
Sounds like nasty business.  They say this particular elder dragon
shares some kind of link with
Gore Magala -- but who knows? You don't get to be called an elder
dragon unless you're a mystery wrapped
in an enigma wrapped in a loaf of bread. Good luck facing the great unknown!
That's sure to go well. I'll root for you
from here, if you don't mind. Feh heh.  Well, well. Look what outstanding hunter
just reached Hunter Rank 7! You beast! We were just talking about you. All good
things, of course. We never talk about
your smell. It's hard to believe you're the same
wobbly hunter who washed into Val Habar
and tottered into our Gathering Hall.  Now that you've been bumped up to HR 7,
I think it's a safe bet you're done with
wobbly tottering once and for all. So don't let me down. Feh heh!  Ah. Hello, hunter. Sorry if I look
distracted. To be truthful, something's
been preying on my mind. Please keep this to yourself, but the
Guild has started getting reports of
erratic geological changes.  Shifts in the terrain, you follow?
We're trying to work out the cause,
but no luck so far.  The thing is, something about all this
reminds me of that story we used to tell
in my village. The one about the snake. It all feels mighty wrong, and I'm
having trouble focusing on work. So
do me a solid, would ya? Get out there and hunt. Hunt something
EPIC. That ought to take both our minds
off whatever's going down. *Sigh* It feels like ages since I set up
this Gathering Hall... I had given up
hope this day would ever arrive. ...Ah, hunter. Have I got a story
for you. Where do I even begin? I may have mentioned that I'm a fan of
folklore. I know the fairy tales and
legends of villages across the land.  Over time, I have collected those stories
and plotted every mythical calamity and
fictitious beast on this here globe.  And what I found is that all the legends
seem to point to one particular location.  Now, a common element in the stories is a
huge snake whose size is beyond reckoning.  So when the Guild reported shifts in the
terrain in the very location all the
tales pointed to, I remembered the snake. And when I had the Guild investigate, I
finally learned the truth.  The snake is no fairy tale! The Guild team that hobbled home reported
a large   elder dragon  ... Its roars were followed by shifts in the
earth; a single twist of its torso carved
valleys from mountains.  The monster is called   Dalamadur . The creature that ignites my spirit of
adventure as a boy is REAL, and living
on  Speartip Crag ... And let's hope it stays there, because its
every move turns the land to dust. We
could be next. The whole world is at risk. Hunter, we have to stop it at all costs.  Thankfully, the Guild was swift to pledge
its vast resources toward vanquishing
Dalamadur.  That's where you come in!
I know it's madness, but... You've proven to me and all the Guild
that you have the talent, the strength,
and the damnable luck to stop that thing! We're counting on you to preserve life as
we know it! And let me tell you, that is
nothing to feh-heh at. Did you really... How did...  I can't believe it! You are outstanding! Simply amazing!
You actually took down Dalamadur!  You stood against a creature whose
thousand blades shredded the earth, who
made and broke mountains! A legend!  And you prevailed. That makes you the
legend now. This is how folklore begins,
Hunter, with moments like this!  I count myself lucky to have lived long
enough to see it. All those years of guiding this
Gathering Hall from one land to the next
have led to this momentous achievement.  You pushed your body to the limit to keep
the land safe. May the words of praise for
you never cease. And may our adventures at the Gathering
Hall never cease! After all, the world's
not out of challenges yet. The Guild wants to thank you in a very
special way. Here, read this.  "In honor of your spectacular work, we
hereby   remove the limit on your Hunter
Rank  ."  Up until now, you've had to finish Urgent
Quests to boost your HR, but no more! From now on, you can increase it by
completing Quests and collecting what
are called  Hunter Rank Points  . How about that? Hunt up a storm and who
knows how far you'll go.  You might even earn a shot at the Guild's
top-secret Advanced Quests! Feh-heh!  Now get hunting! Let's see what a bona
fide legend can REALLY do! We here at the Gathering Hall will be
there with you all the way to the top.  I almost forgot. I got some news for you,
Hunter. Have you heard of a place called
Dundorma?  Well they have this palace called the
  Elder Hall   there, which functions
somewhat like this Gathering Hall.  At the Elder Hall, they have special
quests that we don't have here called
 G-rank Quests . These are the real deal. And I mean REAL.
Because they're so dangerous, only a select
few hunters are allowed to undertake them.  Hunter... you've been nominated to become
one of these elite few. Congrats! You've
earned it! Feh heh!  There's an  Urgent Quest   waiting
for you. Think of it as kind of a "final test."  Seeing everything you've accomplished so
far, I'm sure it'll be a cakewalk for you.
Now get out there and give 'em hell!  You are truly amazing, Hunter. Feh heh!
I haven't felt this happy since I hired
these three beautiful ladies! I feel like I'm seeing my own
child off into the world. So many
emotions right now. ...
Get going. His Immenseness is waiting
for you.  Find His Immenseness in the   Elder Hall  .
To get there, use the stairs in Dundorma. Or you can open your World Map
and tap the Elder Hall icon.
Godspeed, Hunter! Feh heh!  I hear you crossed paths with the
black dragon of legend! Is there anything you can't do? You're
like one big barrel of talent that fell
over, spilling talent everywhere!  I've never met nor heard of a hunter
that's grown as quickly as you have in
so short a time.  And I know you're not done! Don't mind me
while I shield my eyes, because you,
Hunter, are a blazing star.  Just don't let it go to your head.
Feh heh! The Bambina tells me you've been blowing
the Arena records to smithereens.
Feh heh! Glad to hear it!  This calls for a little reward.
...Here, take it. I can't wait to hear
what crazy thing you do next!  Well, now! Somebody's been hunting up
a storm.  I like hunters who push their limits and
shoot for the stars. In fact, I want to
give you a little something. Look at it and remember that taking on
challenges is its own reward! Feh heh! Well, now! Look at all those friends! Good company doesn't grow on trees,
neither. They must have a lot of respect
for you, and that's a fine thing.  I'm so moved that I want you to have this.
I'll be rooting for your collective
success out there! Well, now! Looks like someone got
clearance to enter the Elder Hall!
Good on you, Hunter. Oh, and don't forget. You'll want to talk to
the  Wyverian Lady  there
to get your VE Ticket. You'll find her at the counter at the left
of the Elder Hall. Make me prouder, Hunter.
If that's even possible. Feh heh!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC051 (Guild Merchant).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC051 (Guild Merchant).txt
SIZE: 5063 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:42:22
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 405bea59795d0d46ccb511449582ec81f6ad0a9fc52a29ee31cdd2ec573d923f
================================================================================

﻿Hit the Guild Store for items galore! Wait! Wait! Your change! *sigh* G-Guild Store items are half off today! If you're a Blademaster, you just HAVE to
pick up some Whetstones! And if you're
using a Bowgun, be sure to buy ammo! We have all the stores you need right
here at the Guild Item! I mean... Dang it!  You know where you can shop before AND
after accepting a Quest? Here! Isn't
the Guild Store just the best! Isn't it?! Supply Items are okay and all. B-but you
know what's better than Supply Items?!
Items you buy right here! Please buy my items. Right here.  For a limited time, I give you:
delectably delicious Mosswine Jerky!  ...Oh no no, I meant "give" as in
"proudly present." Not "you can have it
AS a present." ...Am I fired? If you put a Book of Combos in your
Pouch, your Combination success rate
will improve during Quests, too. Just think of all the Mega Potions
you'll, uh-um...Mega! Better buy a
Book of Combos, yup yup! *sigh* How about some nice coatings for your
Bow? Ammo for your Boyguns?
Help your hunting comrades! ...What? No, I said "Bowguns," not
"Boyguns." We don't carry any boys you
can put in your guns. Some items really shine when you use
them in a group: Field Horns, and,
uh-um, and Lifepowder...  Just between you and me, people who carry
these items have lots of friends. Buying
lots of stuff from me doesn't hurt either! Hey! Here's an idea! Why don't you buy
way too many items, then give them to
all your friends?  I'll be your friend if you fall for my
sales ploy. Pleeeeeease?!  The buffer your hunting targets get, the
buffer your wallet gets, am I right? What I'm trying to say is that you
should get your buff on right here.
...That came out wrong. Dang it! Oh! Uh-uh-um, hello there!
W-w-welcome to the   Guild Store ! I hunt all of your selling needs
right here. ...Ah, dang it, I mean SELL
your HUNTING seeds. ...Needs. Dang it! Ugh, I'm messing this up, aren't I? Can you tell I'm new? The Guild just sent
me out here three days ago. Folks in Guild Store boot camp called me
a doofus, but I intend to keep up with the
rest of the tastefully dressed women here!  MUST BE STRONG. GRR! GUILD POWER!
...The Guildmaster told me I need
to be energized at all times. Anyway, step right up! Let me count
your change with the intensity of a
Deviljho's unending hunger! GRR!  Oh! W-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
We've got some new items in sock.
...Stock. Dang it!  Might I recommend this Potion?
What better way to avoid scrounging around
for Herbs and Blue Mushrooms? Huh huh?  ...Was that good? Did I do good?  Oh! W-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
We've got some new fightems in stock.
...Items. Dang it!  Might I recom-um-mend this Book of Combos?
And let's not forget that secret guide
that helps you fit more in your item Box! ...Was that good? Did I do good?  Oh! W-w-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
We've shot some new items in stock.
...Got. Dang it!  Might I recom-um-um-mend this Mega
Pickaxe and our new assortment of
Somethingcharms? ...You know, 'cause they're all called,
like, *something* and then "Charm." Okay, now I'm really wishing I sold a
Getmydangfootoutofmymouthcharm... Oh! W-w-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
We've got some blue items in stock.
...New. Dang it!  Anyway, check out this new Monster Info
book! You HAVE to buy it. And by "have
to," I mean "should." Please buy it. Oh! W-w-w-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
We've got some new stocks in item.
...Other way around. Dang it!  Anyway, check out this new Monster Info
book! You HAVE to buy it. And by "have
to," I mean "that would be great." Oh! W-w-w-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
In got we've some items new stock.
...What the heck?  Anyway, check out this new Monster Info
book! It's got the whole pantheon of
elder dragons! You HAVE to buy it. And by "have to,"
I mean "probably should." Yup.  Wow! You dook gare of Dalamadur?
Dank you! *honk*
Sowwy, I gaught a gold. I dink da libe or death exberience
must hab combromised my immune system. Danks for gedding rid of the scary
monster, Hunder. I'm sure I'll make a
speedy recubbery now.  *Cough* *wheeze*
Oh look, I'm better already! We got some new items in stock to
celebrate, so buy buy buy! Please buy.  Oh! W-w-w-w-w-welcome to the Guild Store!
WE... HAVE... GOT... SOME... NEW...
ITEMS... IN... STOCK! Yeah! I got it! Anyway, check out this new Monster Info
book! You HAVE to buy it. And by "have
to," I mean... I mean "have to." Welcome! To the! Guild Store!
We've got! NEW! Items in stock! Yeeeah! Anyway, check out this new Monster Info
book...which is actually just a
regular old storybook for kids. I thought you might want to read
something new for a change of page.
...Pace! Dang it! Sorry! Meltdown! Welcome! To the! Guild Store!
We've got! NEW! Items in stock! Yeeeah! Anyway, check out this new Monster Info
book...which is actually about some
ancient god from a faraway land.  I thought you might want to read
something new for a change of page.
...Pace! Dang it! So close! Meltdown!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC052 (Low Questatrix).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC052 (Low Questatrix).txt
SIZE: 9998 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:42:52
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: aa0da28a4e0fc18ec423044554c022e161ad0ae108e7da372e00679c3e9927ad
================================================================================

﻿Righto. Let's have a peek at those Quests!  Come back soon. I basically live here!  Oh noes! You're short on funds,
I'm afraid. Oh noes! You're not eligible for
that one, I'm afraid.  I'll be here when you get back! You already have a Quest! Should I go
ahead and wipe that sucker? Okay, I cancelled your Quest application.
Come back again soon! Righto, I won't touch it, then.
Be careful out there! Here's what I have to offer you.  Nice! This Quest has no fee!
I just LOVE freebies.  Righto, that'll be  z.  Come back with all your organs! Bam! That Quest is so wiped! Pfft, gone!  Aww. Are you backing out? Hidey-ho, Hunter! Have you finished
hunter registration yet?  All you have to do is go talk to the
Guildmaster over there. Don't worry, I'll
wait for you!  dmy Hidey-ho, Hunter! Have you been collecting
Guild Cards? You can swap Guild Cards with the
friends you hunt with, and you can also
get them through StreetPass.  If you want to know more, ask the
Courier in the red hat.
Good things come to those who swap! If you know any other hunters, you should
totally combine your powers and morph
into a super fighting automaton!  ...Uh, I mean, you should hunt together.  You can also round up hunters you don't
know by ringing the Gong. Don't worry --
if you ring it, they will come!  Step right up! I'm in charge of doling
out Low-rank Quests. So, Hunter, which
weapon do you use?! ...Wh-whoa! Put it away! Put it away!
It's just...too...radiant... *squint* Psst! Hunter! Have you been using
the Canteen? Ya just sit at that big
table over there. See it?  You should totally chow down before you
go on your hunts. Vittles are vital for
victory, if you, um...vvvask me?  The Guild uses a star system to
denote Quest difficulty. Let the stars
be your guide! *twinkle* Trust me, it's reliable. We didn't just
base it on how ugly the monsters are...
though that's not a bad idea... What? My outfit? It's a local thing.  I hear it was designed to be practical
for long caravan treks.  After all, our Gathering Hall is mobile!
We're ready to cross oceans and deserts if
we have to. Yuppity-yup!  Our particular Gathering Hall gets a
lot of hunters like you. I guess it's
because so many caravans wander through. Or maybe it's the Guildmaster's magnetic
personality? ...Or maybe not.  Hunter, this kinda goes without saying,
but it's best to NOT hurt your comrades.
Barrel Bombs are the biggest threat. Those things do tons of damage, so be
aware of who's around you when you set
one of those things off! Did you know that some crazy hunter took
on Dah'ren Mohran when it was
careening toward Val Habar...  WEARING NOTHING BUT UNDIES?!
That's some hero... No, more than that.
That's like some kind of super-hero! I'll tell ya, you just don't know true
courage until you have to get half-naked
to save the day.  ...Hmm? On my days off? I go to the Arena
and watch hunters get all sweaty! You can
sign up for it with the girl to my left.  That's the Arena Bambina. She comes up with
perfect events every time through extensive
use of statistics and psychological research. Yuppity-yup! She's a certifiable genius,
even if she doesn't act like it...
(Oh no, I think she heard me! *gulp*) The Guildmaster over there rules
the roost. I hear he used to have his own
caravan back when he was younger.  Eventually, his years of caravaneering
caught the Guild's eye, so they put him in
charge of this Gathering Hall.  He always tells us that he won't be happy
until his Gathering Hall is the center
of the known caravan universe. Ooh, epic!  Remember to help out hunters with lower
HR than you. You need to set a good
example for all those wee hunterlings.  Plus they'll love you! They'll be, like,
"Ooh! You're my hero! Sign my arm!
Give me a lock of your hair!!"  ...Actually, let's hope they're really
not like that. All done with hunter registration? Great!
Welcome to the Quest Counter! I handle
 Low-rank Quests . Yuppity-yup!  The Guild receives tons of requests from
all kinds of folks which are then filed
as   Quests  . Those Quests are then made available
to hunters like you who carry them out.  The majority of Quests we offer are
intended to be handled in groups. Each Quest is assigned a level which is
indicated by the number of stars. Quests are divided into two categories:
  Low-rank   Quests (1-3 stars)
and   High-rank  Quests (4-6 stars).  You miiight even see some really
difficult Quests marked "Advanced."  Quests marked with one or two stars
feature relatively weak monsters and
are intended for beginners.  Once you get to 4 stars and up, you'll only
be allowed to do the hunt if you have an
equal or greater   Hunter Rank , or  HR  . Oh noes! Better raise that HR!
BUT HOW, you're probably thinking really
loudly in your brain. I'll tell you!  Here's the dealio.
Step 1! Complete a number of specific
Quests at your current level.  Step 2! Once you've done the required
Quests, the Guild will ask you to
undertake what's called an  Urgent Quest  . Step 3! Complete the Urgent Quest, and
your HR will increase one rank.  Since you just registered, you'll have
to start out at HR 1. I know what
you're thinking. I bet you're all, like, "Big whoop,
Guild lady! I may be at the bottom rung,
but I'm gonna OWN this ladder! Hooah!!"  ...Yes, that's what you sound like
to me. Anyway! I know you'll go far. So let's get this hunting party started!
Your real life is about to begin!  Righto, Hunter! This is the moment
you've been waiting for! Like the Guildmaster said, it's time
for your first   Urgent Quest  . Yuppity-yup!  Go ahead and have a look at the Urgent
Quest description. It's going to ask you to hunt a
Nerscylla.  I know you can do it! I know you can
reach HR 2! You'll be, like, TWICE the
hunter you are now! Oh, and important note if you're
hunting with friends: Make sure you're
the one who pays the Quest Fee! Otherwise you won't get credit and
your HR won't increase. Oh noes! I bet you're all, like, "Never fear,
Guild lady! I'm not stupid! I'll be
sure to put my zenny where my mouth is!!"  And you're right! You're not stupid!
Never did I imply that you're stupid!
Just be sure to pay that Quest Fee.  All right, then, get out there and
get your Urge...uh, gent on! Hooah!  Congrats, Hunter!
You've been promoted to   HR 2  !
Yuppity-yup!  Now you can try your hand at
two-star Quests. Yaaay!
*clap clap clap* Woo hoo!  *Ahem* BUT WAIT. Don't forget that
two-star Quests are going to be a
little harder than one-star Quests.  I know, I know. I bet you're all, like,
"I eat stars for breakfast, Guild lady. "You show me a star, and I'll star the
ever-living star out of that star!"  But since I have no idea what the heck
that means, I'll just warn you again:
Be careful out there!  Righto, Hunter! Here comes yet another
moment you've been waiting for!  Like the Guildmaster said, it's time
for another  Urgent Quest  . Yuppity-yup!  All right, you've done this before.
Have a look at the Urgent Quest
description.  You'll see Gore Magala's ugly
mug and even uglier name. Eww!  But you can do it. Complete this Quest
and you'll get bumped up to HR 3.  I know, I know. You're probably all,
like, "I won't make any promises,
because I'm too cool for promises."  I can't believe you. How non-committal
can you get? Heh. Just kidding! Now get out there
and get your Urging on!  Congrats, Hunter!
You've been promoted to   HR 3  !
Yuppity-yup!  Now you can try your hand at
three-star Quests. Yaaay!
*clap clap clap* Woo hoo!  OH, but WAIT. You should know by now that
three-star Quests are going to be a little
harder than two-star Quests. I know, I know. I bet you're all, like,
"Puh-lease, I could clear these Quests
with a Great Jaggi tied to my back." Well, that's awesome of you, but be
careful anyway. The whole joy of hunts
is that you never know what'll happen! Righto, Hunter! Here comes yet another-
other moment you've been waiting for! Like the Guildmaster said, it's time
for another-other  Urgent Quest  . Yuppity-yup!  All right, you know the drill.
Have a look at the Urgent Quest
description. *Gasp* A wild request to take out
Dah'ren Mohran has appeared!  Don't worry. You've got this! And once
you've completed the Quest, your HR will
jump up a massive one point to HR 4!  Oh wows! Do you know what that means?
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS? It means
you'll be an elite High-rank hunter!  Go on. Say what's in your heart. Say,
"I may be HR 3, but I'm not three years
old. Don't talk down to me!"  Hoo! You sure showed me! ...Even though
you didn't actually say it! Anyway, get out there and Urge yourself
into history. I believe in you!
I believe all over you! Congrats, Hunter!
You've been promoted to   HR 4  !
Yuppity-yup!  In fact, double congrats, because now
you can try your hand at  High-rank
Quests  . Yaaay! *clap clap clap* Okay, let's stop clapping for a sec
because there are few things you need
to know about High-rank Quests. The High Questatrix next to me will
talk you through it.  High-rank Quests are going to feel
way different than Low-rank Quests.
Be ready for that. In fact, be ready for anything!
These Quests are evil! They'll kill you
in your sleep! Figuratively speaking. Anyway, now that I'm mostly irrelevant
to you *sniff* please remember to drop
by and say hello from time to time. No, no, don't say it. It hurts too much.
Don't say, "I'll miss you. In my heart,
I'll always be Low-rank just for you." Really?! Well you can still undertake
Low-rank Quests along with High-rank
Quests. W-wait! Where are you g--  Whoa, amaaaAAAAAAaaaaaaAAAAAAzing work
taking out Dalamadur!
I mean...just incredible! Hooah! Do you want to do a happy cry together?
I've got an extra hanky.  I bet you're all, like, "I don't need a
hanky, 'cause I'm gonna wipe my face on
Dalamadur's carcass! Hooah!"  That's really gross! But really cool!
...But still kinda gross!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC053 (High Questatrix).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC053 (High Questatrix).txt
SIZE: 12280 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:43:24
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0e1518b38a9e9b71080d2f50d3b393b42225d2c1f02f6eb13f84195600f46a68
================================================================================

﻿Now! The Quests...  Come again. If you're alive, heh heh... What? You don't have the funds, my dear.
The Guild doesn't accept pounds of
flesh, heh heh. What? You aren't eligible, my dear.
Are you in that big a hurry to die? Be careful now. I wouldn't want to see
you get hurt. Heh heh... My dear, please... You already have a
Quest. Shall I cancel it? Very well. Consider it canceled.
Heh heh... Very well. Keep the Quest.
See if I care. Heh heh...  Here's what I can offer you.  This Quest has no fee. You can't put
a price on your own demise...  That will be  z, if you please. Be careful now. I wouldn't want to see
you get hurt. Heh heh... Very well. Consider it canceled.
Heh heh... Oh, so you're backing out?  Salutations and denigrations, Hunter.
This is the counter for High-rank Quests. Come back once you reach a high enough
Hunter Rank. You should start with Low-rank Quests.
...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.  dmy Salutations and denigrations, Hunter.
This is the counter for High-rank Quests. My specialty is more, shall we say,
hazardous Quests than what the Low
Questatrix offers. Heh heh...  To hunt on the Internet, open the World Map
and select "Solo/Multiplayer," then
"Online Multiplayer." Easy, right? Heh heh... I was wondering if I might ask you
something, my dear...  Was it, perhaps, YOU who faced off
against Dah'ren Mohran, diverting
it from colliding with Val Habar?  I heard you were in your underwear.
Such a confident fashion choice --
no wonder Dah'ren Mohran gave up...  Nine out of ten hunters forget to pack
Cool Drinks. Do try to take your time when preparing
for a Quest, yes? You wouldn't want to
become a burden to your allies. Heh heh. Nine out of ten hunters give up mid-
Quest because they left their Cool
Drinks at home. The question is, are you the smart one?
Heh heh...  Ah yes, while I have you -- let me fill
you in on a little inside secret. Some Quests allow you to upgrade the
quality of ingredients used at the
Open-air Kitchen and Canteen. You should keep an eye out for them.
Heh heh... Salutations and denigrations, Hunter.
A word of caution regarding Urgent
Quests:  Urgent Quests are special in that you
have to initiate the Quest personally
for it to count towards your Hunter Rank. Be careful. ...I would hate to see you
make a terrible mistake. Salutations and denigrations, Hunter.
Let me tell you a little bit about
Advanced Quests. These special Quests show up unexpectedly
and for a limited time only. If you
see one, you ought to give it a try.  ...I would hate to see you miss out.  High-rank Quests are different than
Low-rank Quests in that Supply Items may
not be there for you right away. Did you think you could freeload
forever? Heh heh.  Nine out of ten hunters run out of steam
in the middle of a Quest because they
forgot to have a meal beforehand.  The question is, are you the smart one?
Heh heh...  Here at the High-rank Quest Counter,
I offer more difficult Quests for hunters
who have reached the required HR.  Why not work on raising your HR so you
can get ripped ap-- Er, really ripped.
Heh heh...  When you embark on High-rank Quests,
you might find yourself starting from
a normally unreachable location. If you become so lucky, there are
valuable items for you to gather.
Heh heh...  The Bambina at the Arena counter is
the one who thinks up all the Arena
Quests. If you think I'm cold and brutal, just
wait until you see what she has up
her sleeves. Heh heh... Salutations and denigrations, Hunter.
A word of caution regarding High-rank
Quests. On High-rank Quests, you'll run into
far, far more dangerous monsters than
you see on Low-rank Quests.  I'd say "don't sweat," but there aren't
enough buckets for the sweat you
should be sweating. Heh heh... When he was younger, the Guildmaster
was a caravaneer as well.  He loved fairy tales, and traveled the
world to seek the truth behind all the
myths and legends.  Be careful when you talk to him.
...I wouldn't want to see you get your
ears talked off.  Congratulations, Hunter.
You have attained HR 4...meaning I'll
be calling the shots now, mwa ha ha. Take it all in, this is the counter for
  High-rank Quests  . There are a few things you need to know
about High-rank Quests before we begin. First, the hunting environments are going
to be dripping with deadly monsters far
worse than those in Low-rank Quests.  That means the Guild will   not be able to
get all your Supply Items to you  right at
the beginning of the Quest. Of course, we will try to get them to
you as quickly as we can, but by then
YOU WILL BE DEAD, mwa ha ha!  Already frightened? Oh, it gets better...
  In Low-rank Quests, you always
started in the base camp, remember?
Didn't that make you feel SAFE and SECURE? Well, in nearly all High-rank Quests, you
may start out   somewhere outside the
base camp . You may be separated from your dear, dear
friends, or have to start from, shall we
say, an unfortunate position...  That's right, you might find yourself face
to face with a monster right from the
get-go, mwa ha ha! Make sure you go in prepared. Otherwise...
you will be torn to pieces like the scraps
of monster fodder you are, mwa ha ha! ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Salutations and denigrations, my dear.
Do I have news for you! Heh heh... No doubt the Guildmaster has already
informed you that you have received an
  Urgent Quest  ...of doom, mwa ha ha! *ahem* Your job is to hunt a   Pink Rathian  .
Did you remember to pack Antidotes? Heh.  Complete this task, and your HR will be
increased to HR 5.  Now then, let's see... The venue for
your impending slaughter seems to be the
Sunken Hollow.  Having second thoughts? No, I insist:
I will personally escort you to your
destination, mwa ha ha!  ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 5  .
Heh heh...  The good news is that you can now do five-
star Quests. The bad news...is that these
quests are harder than four-star Quests. Your untimely demise is all but assured,
mwa ha ha! Prepare in vain, if you must. By the way, Hunter, did you have a
pleasant voyage on the way to the
Urgent Quest? You didn't? Oh my! No one likes a whiner, my dear.
But if you insist, I can steer a little
more carefully this time. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Salutations and denigrations, my dear.
Do I have news for you! Heh heh... No doubt the Guildmaster has already
informed you that you have received an
  Urgent Quest  ...of doom, mwa ha ha! *ahem* Your job is to hunt a   Black Gravios .
Are you thoroughly prepared? Heh. Complete this task, and your HR will be
increased to HR 6.  Now then, let's see... The venue for
your impending slaughter seems to be the
Primal Forest.  Yes, it is a long ride so do be sure
to hold on tight, mwa ha ha! ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 6  .
Heh heh...  You are now permitted to undertake
six-star Quests. If you do a good job, I promise to
exercise the UTMOST of care when I deliver
you to the Urgent Quest...  And certain doom, mwa ha ha!
So do be careful out there.  ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Salutations and denigrations, my dear.
Do I have news for you! Heh heh... No doubt the Guildmaster has already
informed you that you have received an
  Urgent Quest  ...of doom, mwa ha ha! *ahem* Your job is to eliminate  Shagaru
Magala  . Did you remember to pack
Nulberries? Heh. Complete this task, and your HR will be
increased to HR 7.  Now then, let's see... The venue for
your impending slaughter seems to be the
Sanctuary.  Be prepared for extreme and sudden changes
in altitude. Might I suggest tying
yourself to anything that is bolted down? ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 7  .
Heh heh...  You are now permitted to undertake seven-
star Quests, some of which are EXCLUSIVELY
for the cream of the hunter crop.  If you want to try one, I'll get you
crammed in an airship faster than you can
say, "No! Wait! I've changed my mind!" And don't even THINK about jumping
from a moving airship! ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Salutations and denigrations, my dear.
Do I have news for you!  No doubt the Guildmaster has already
informed you that you have received an
  Urgent Quest  ... Your job is to eliminate  Dalamadur . That's the legendary monster the
Guildmaster relentlessly pursued in
his youth... I can hardly believe the earth-munching,
hunter-crunching thing is even really
out there. Well, uh, let's see... The venue for
your impending slaughter seems to be
Speartip Crag.  Never fear. I'll make sure to get
you there safely. And do be careful
out there.  ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt.
I wouldn't want to NOT see you get
hurt, either.  Look, just don't get hurt.
Not this time. Salutations and denigrations, my dear.
Do I have news for you!  No doubt the Guildmaster has already
informed you that you have received an
  Urgent Quest  ... Your job is to eliminate an   Ukanlos .
This order comes directly from
His Immenseness in Dundorma. ... I guess...this is goodbye...*sniff* Well, actually, it's only goodbye if
you get torn to shreds. But you'll
be fine, won't you? Heh heh.  Do be careful, now.
...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Salutations and-- Oh! I'm so glad
you're safe! You did a fine job getting
rid of Dalamadur. I mean, uh... I thought for sure you'd
be stuck in its teeth by now, mwa ha ha!
Yeah... Actually, when we finally approached
that awful peak, my heart wouldn't stop
pounding.  I realized that, hey, you actually really
could get hurt. And that made me hurt,
too...a little.  I'll probably still give you lip just
because that's who I am. But deep down,
I do want you to be careful.  And the truth is, I DON'T want you to
get hurt... Not too much, anyway, heh heh...  Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 20 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of solid Quest a solid
hunter like you deserves. But do be
careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 30 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of wild Quest a wild
hunter like you deserves. But do be
careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 40 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of grand Quest a
grand hunter like you deserves.
But do be careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 50 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of dynamite Quest a
dynamite hunter like you deserves.
But do be careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 60 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of ruthless Quest a
ruthless hunter like you deserves.
But do be careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 70 . I can't believe it's real. I've only
read about this dragon in storybooks...  And here it is, jumping out of the pages
of fantasy and into Castle Schrade...
Do be careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. And I r-really mean that for once.  Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 80 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of insane Quest an
insane hunter like you deserves.
But do be careful out there.  ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 90 .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of lethiferous Quest a
lethiferous hunter like you deserves.
But do be careful out there. ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Congratulations, my dear.
You have been promoted to   HR 100  .
And look what I have here...  Just the sort of uncompromising Quest an
uncompromising hunter like you deserves.
But do be careful out there.  ...I wouldn't want to see you get hurt. Because if you do...  J-just don't. OR ELSE, mwa ha ha.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC054 (Arena Maiden).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC054 (Arena Maiden).txt
SIZE: 5844 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:44:10
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 43869922c163d4ec6d46be21f63f807e4a9999ffd37b5035e161ad5b5d593f2e
================================================================================

﻿Yeah, so here's today's awesome lineup. Right. You can go away now. Holy bankruptcy, are you broke. Yeah, how about being worthy first? Yeah, good luck and stuff.  Yeah, so you've already got a Quest?
See that thing over your head? Yeah. Cancelled! Much like my respect for you.  Have it your way. Because I care. Here's what's on the menu. Yeah...  Yeah, this Quest is free of charge.
You know -- gratuitous, like that outfit? Yeah, so that'll be   z up front? Yeah, good luck and stuff.  All cancelled! You can begone now.  Seriously? You're calling it quits? Yeah, hi. This is the Arena.
Come back once you're a registered hunter
and actually half a blip on my radar. Bye! Yeah, so your Item Box is full... I didn't REALLY want to give you this
present anyway, but we can discuss it
again once you, you know, organize. Yeah, hi. This is the Arena.  Here we hold games of sport where you're
required to use the weapon and equipment
we set aside for you. Yeah, you know you want to show off.
Go on, flash some biceps. ...Not that
much, that's obscene.  Yeah, so how are you? I don't care, but
that's what they pay me to say. Anyway, I'm obligated to tell you that
meals have no effect in the Arena. Real
hunters don't need the dinner crutch.  Have you noticed StreetPass hunters show
up on the Leaderboards?  I love looking at the Leaderboards so I
can make fun of the losers at the bottom.
...Heh heh heh. Yeah, so here's a shocker, like your
wardrobe: You know the High Questatrix?  Apparently, she's some big-shot ship
pilot. If there's such a thing as piloting
a ship. I don't really care.  Anyway, she does it all: sandskiffs,
airships, runaway Popo carts. Maybe she
can pilot you toward a fashion consultant. Yeah, do you ever get frustrated that you
can't improve your Best Times? I do.  I totally get frustrated that you can't
improve your Best Times. But we can't
all be perfect like people who aren't you.  Yeah, so some people go into the Arena
with weapons they're used to. Others pick
based on skills. Still others focus on the items available.
These are things that smart people do,
in case you need a reference point? Yeah. Yeah, so the other day we all worked
together to clean up the Gathering Hall.
Thanks for not helping with that. Wouldn't want you to be here to stop the
Gong Lady from trying to move this
globe and nearly kill us all. Yeah. Yeah, hi. Welcome to the  Arena  desk.
I mean, just look how welcome you are. This is TOTALLY not me being forced to
welcome you because my boss says I have
an attitude problem. Yeah. Anyway. How would YOU like to take on some big,
scary monsters? Wouldn't you ever -- you
wittle meathead, you!  The Arena is the perfect place to prove
how not worthless you are as a hunter.  We give you a specific scenario with
specific rules, and your job is to finish
the hunt as quickly as possible. There are no special requirements!
Otherwise why would YOU be here, right?  Yeah, so let me run through the   Arena
rules  with you. Fun times. Rule  1: Meals have no effect.
Rule  2: We pick your weapon and armor.  That's got to be, like, two more things
then you're usually capable of
remembering, but good luck.  So anyway, your time in the Arena
shows up on our Leaderboards. I'm more than happy to scan WAY down
the list and tell you where you stand.
Just ask. Your Guild Card appears on the
Leaderboards as well. Which is why you
really should learn how to dress... Anyway, I can hear my boss getting ready
to fire me, so yeah. Let's go already: Yeah, hi. So, I went all out and devised
this new Quest for you called
"Grudge Match: Bug Out." Good luck not messing it up all and that. Wow, look at this fancy Elite Hunter!
I'm almost impressed. Yeah, so, I went all out and devised
this new Quest for you called
"Grudge Match: Zamtrios."  Good luck not messing it up all and that. Yeah, hi. So, I went all out and devised
this new Quest for you called
"Grudge Match: Brute Tigrex."  Good luck not messing it up all and that. Yeah, hi. So, I went all out and devised
this new Quest for you called
"Grudge Match: Stygian Zinogre." Good luck not messing it up all and that. Yeah, hi. So, I went all out and devised
this new Quest for you called
"Grudge Match: Deviljho."  Good luck not messing it up all and that. Yeah, hi. Nice job taking down the
Dalamadur, assuming it was
actually you who did it. Yeah.  You may have fooled the Gong Lady
and even moved her to tears, but I'm a
tougher gal to choke up. I decided to come up with some new Quests
instead of confronting my emotions. I even added clever names. They're called
"Grudge Match: Colorful Combo" and
"Grudge Match: Dos Gravios." If anyone can complete these Quests...
then please tell me who. ...You're going to do them?
You, in that outfit?  Yeah, I'm sure you'll do fine. Totally.
...Yeah.  Yeah, hi. I figured you'd roll by.  Did you know you've   completed  all the
Arena's Low-rank and High-rank Quests
with an  A Rank   or higher? Yeah, that's really impressive. How did
you fake all those victories? Monster
poison? Did you swap in monster cutouts?  Yeah, anyway. My boss said to give this
to you and tell you that it's a token of
my admiration. Yeah, hi. I figured you'd roll by.  Did you know you've   completed  all the
Arena's High-rank Quests with an
  A Rank   or higher? Yeah... Okay, actually. Yeah, I'll
admit it. For a brief second, I really
did entertain the idea of being impressed.  So you can take this as a token of my
really wanting to be rid of you once
and for all. I mean, who do you think you are?
The warm and fuzzy brigade? You're totally
messing with my jadedness. Yeah. Yeah, hi. So, I went all out and devised
this new Quest. You'll need to slay
a Daimyo Hermitaur.  Good luck not messing it up all and that.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC055 (Gong Girl).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC055 (Gong Girl).txt
SIZE: 3087 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:45:04
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a895abe9656e7300125472c8d3382784cf766e01c3b5e1003912325e1a2e7ba9
================================================================================

﻿How may I help you? 

May your every hunt be prosperous.  

dmy If you would like to change your
Hunters for Hire settings or your
message, please don't hesitate to ask. 

The greater your achievements, the more
options that will be added to your
Hunters for Hire Preferences.  This is a good reason to actively go
back and complete any unfinished Quests. 

Use Hunters for Hire Preferences to
zero in on a specific Quest Rank,
destination, or target. 

If you're after specific items or
materials, then think carefully about
your Preferences. 

If you still haven't activated
StreetPass for this software,
might I recommend it?  I don't know what "software" means
exactly, but I think that you can use
StreetPass to trade Guild Cards. Any hunters you exchange StreetPass data
with will come visit the Gathering Hall
and help you as Hunters for Hire.  

If you notice a nearby hunter is
looking for Quest members, please do
consider helping out. The whole world is eager to meet you,
after all. 

May your every hunt be
prosperous. 

You don't have to actively trade
Guild Cards. You can also receive
them using StreetPass. Talk to the Courier if you haven't
set up StreetPass yet. He's the
dashing Felyne in the red cap. 

I live for my job, which is to watch
hunters gather together and share the
trials and tribulations of the hunt. Good hunters work together, learn
together, get hurt together, and go on
their next hunt stronger than before.  Just working the Gong is its own reward.  

Greetings, Hunter. It's a pleasure to
make your acquaintance. I'm the   Gong Lady . The crash of this Gong is a rallying cry
for hunters around the world. Some even
say it can be heard a few worlds over. If you ring the Gong while using
 Local Play   or   Online Multiplayer  ,
you'll Publicize your Gathering Hall. Publicizing tells other hunters you want
to Quest with them. You can also set
various options and a Passcode. If you ring the Gong while playing
 Offline , you'll be able to configure your
Hunters for Hire Preferences.  Speaking of which, I'm sure you've  swapped
some Guild Cards   by now, right?
No? Well, either way. If you DO trade Guild Cards with
friends or via StreetPass? Well then the cards' owners will
sometimes pay your Gathering Hall
here a visit.  Those are   Hunters for Hire  . You can ask Hunters for Hire to do a
variety of Quests for you. They will then
bring home items just for you. In fact, there might even be some items
you can ONLY get from Hunters for Hire. So if you see a Hunter for Hire, say
hello and give that hard worker a Quest! If you have any other questions, take
a look at   Help   in the upper left of
the Touch Screen. Right then. Have a very pleasant day,
and may your every hunt be prosperous.  

Welcome back, Hunter.
My heartfelt congratulations on taking
down Dalamadur.  ...Oh, gosh. That sounded awfully
businesslike, didn't it?  Let me try that again with a little
more warmth... *ahem* I hope we have been of service to you
here at the Gathering Hall. You will
always be welcome in the years to come.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC056 (Hunter Blatherer).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC056 (Hunter Blatherer).txt
SIZE: 4283 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:45:52
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 47db818b37f6421c32657e6ad667063c128212f5d2d06786c2b38fd8400a587d
================================================================================

﻿Hi there are you here to make your big
hunter debut or something? Because I am.
Gets your chest pumping, doesn't it?  

You're going to need to make sure you're
prepared for all your hunts from now on
because that's just common sense.  

Oh and you should take my advice which is
to gather lots of different materials
while you're out there. That way you'll have them when you need
them which could be like basically
anytime really.  

Do monsters like the Nerscylla ever
hit you with abnormal statuses and wreck
your day because they SO wreck mine. 

Whenever you hunt a monster for the
first time you should make sure to bring
lots of different items with you.  

Has a Zamite in the Frozen Seaway ever
bitten you and wrecked your day because
it totally wouldn't let go? Yeah.  You should try evading a lot because
the Zamite hate that and will
probably let go. 

I haven't run into them or anything, but
I hear these like really berserk monsters
have been sighted or something.  

Don't get careless just because a
monster looks like one you've already
hunted because it's just not smart. 

Have you noticed those quests marked
"Advanced"? Because I have.  As you can probably guess those are
super hard Quests that are too hard for
average hunters like maybe me.  They only show up if you're lucky so I'd
sure like to take a crack at one.  

Oh are you a High-rank Hunter now?
Because congratulations and stuff on
working your butt off to be awesome.  The monsters that turn up on High-rank
Quests are like a billion times as
powerful as the Low-rank ones.  If you go in unprepared then you'll be
rolling back to base camp in no time flat.
Think of these Quests as a fresh start. 

It sounds like a lot of hunters have been
bumping into nasty monsters during their
Harvest Tours lately.  If you're feeling uneasy about a situation
then be ready to haul it out of there
as soon as danger rears its ugly face. Or you can stand and fight if you think
you've got what it takes which of course
is totally fine and stuff. 

If you want to take on two monsters at
once then you totally need Dung Bombs
if you ask me. A monster might run away if you hit it
with one, which gives you a little extra
breathing room. 

Hunting successive monsters can take a
lot out of a hunter and I'm a hunter so
yeah I'm pretty tired. How about you?  There's so much to think about like
whether your weapon is a good fit, what
items to take, what items to keep...  

Have you heard because apparently there
has been a surge of dangerous-monster-
subspecies sightings lately. Subspecies usually have different
weaknesses and move differently than
their normal counterparts. You should probably watch them calmly
first because how else are you going to
learn what they're going to do? 

Wow you are really amazing and I don't
even know how to keep up with all the
amazing stuff you do and it's stressful. You should totally keep at it because
with your skills I bet you could hunt
pretty much any monster alive.  

Regular hunters aren't allowed to even
look at the details for Quests ranked
seven-star and up, let alone try them. I'm guessing that's because the Guild
doesn't want vicious monsters murdering
its beginners but maybe that's just me. 

Hi there and oh hey I hear you took out
Dalamadur which is pretty impressive
actually isn't it 'cause I'd say so. I didn't think any hunter in the world
could take down that elder dragon but
you're a hunter so I was probably wrong. Other hunters should look to you for
inspiration which probably sounds like
butt-kissing but come on! 

Dalamadur?! Hi there, Dalamadur Slayer.
How did it feel to demolish that
Dalamadur 'cause I bet it was nice.  I hear there are even harder monsters
out there to hunt but you could probably
do it because come on! 

Dalamadur?! 

If you want to increase your HR you'll
just have to hunt and hunt and when
you're done with that? Hunt. But raising your HR gives you access
to new more challenging Quests or at
least that's what I hear. 

Have you noticed those quests marked
"Advanced"? Because I have.  As you can probably guess those are
super hard Quests that are too hard for
average hunters like maybe me.  They only show up if you're lucky so I'd
sure like to take a crack at one.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC060 (Ace Commander).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC060 (Ace Commander).txt
SIZE: 11330 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:46:30
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 050c5041ff5b23cd365f5293a66df1b857ae127750fafbde40703619e6085dd1
================================================================================

﻿Hmph. I can still hardly believe YOU'RE
the Caravan's resident hunter.  Hear me well... Yours is a pivotal role
that must not be taken lightly. You WILL defend your companions with
your LIFE -- or face my wrath. We intend to leave by ship as soon as we
finish increasing our armor's grade. Then, a task far heavier than any iron
or steel awaits... After all, our wits
shall be tested against the vile--  Ah, but what concern is it of yours?
...Away, now. You have a habit of making
me talk to myself.  The first rule a hunter must abide by
is to never, ever put one's companions
in danger. ...The second rule is to remember the
first rule. Ah, so you've heard? Yes, we are here to
investigate the Gore Magala. But now our surveys are complete and the
more gruesome task lies ahead. Soon the
order shall come to--  Bah, this is no concern of yours...
Why does the very sight of you always urge
me to spout such wasteful vocalizations? Heed me, Hunter. The Gore Magala
is not to be trifled with by the likes
of you. Do not try to be a hero.  I needn't remind you that your place is
with the Caravan, protecting the Scribe.  Have I made myself clear? Damnable Felynes! How is one to prepare
body and spirit for one's epic battle
with all this...MEWING in the village?  *Sigh* Will the order to deploy
never come? The Guild has been waiting for someone
capable of taming the frenzied
Tigrex... ...I must begrudgingly admit that person
MAY, in fact, be you.  Why can I not shake this icky feeling
that our goals have been the same from
the very start?  That the meetings of men, like the
coming together of monsters, is not
mere happenstance, but fate? I do not know if it was some god
that brought us together or not. But, either way, I must count myself
fortunate for being able to witness such
a rare moment firsthand. Go in peace, Hunter. The Lancer, the Gunner, and the
Cadet also bade me give you
their regards.  We trust you can, and will, carry on the
great things we have started here. Ah, greetings. How have you been? I and the others have been keeping
busy as always, but such is our vocation.   ...*Cough* ...Why are you still standing there?
Did that not suffice for small talk? Ah, Hunter. Still keeping well, I trust?
...No, I am not here on business.  I simply found myself longing for your
blank stare. ...Ah, there it is. Are you accustomed now to that weapon?
My courage falters when I select a new
implement... What if I choose incorrectly?  Once on the hunt, I put those fears out
of mind, only for them to come rushing
back in the ensuing lull...  Ah, Hunter. The passing of the days
does little to dull your glistening,
oily complexion. Might I pose you a question? How many
Guild Cards have you amassed? Me? Ha ha ha. I have three. Three!
I believe very few can rival my
popularity.  ...What do you mean, you know which three?  Ah, Hunter. ...Hmm? No, nothing is amiss.
You spoke to ME, remember?  But as long as I have you here, I suppose
I ought to clear the air... When I look at
you now, I feel a certain... *Sigh* Never mind. It is no concern
of yours. Ah, greetings. Glad to see you're
still standing. Tell me, were you born here?  ...Oh no, not I. I hail from the distant
North, where the cold penetrates like a...
Like cold. Ahem.  Our springs are short and winters long,
and the air freezes breath and bare
fingers alike.  And yet I often long for it...  Ah! Hunter. Your familiar, meaty breath
warms my heart. ...The Scribe is well, you say?
Good, good. I suppose none can object to his tour
of the world, just so long as you are
there to protect him. Ah, Hunter. Have you any plans to attempt
the Advanced Quests?  I fear my team will be too busy with
other engagements to guide you through
the task. ...Not that you need it. You have more
than proven where your ability stands in
comparison to ours. I must thank you for helping us with
such an unpleasant matter.
Truly, you have my gratitude. To be frank, you were the only hunter
I could think of who was capable of
facing the Gore Magala. And speaking of monsters, let us hope
the Cadet's romantic ambitions have been
slain once and for all.  Thank you for once again helping us
with these unpleasant matters. Again, I am
grateful to you. What other hunter besides you could have
taken on the Rajang? Now, if only someone would exterminate
the Cadet's libidinous inclinations --
a Quest I would not wish even upon you! The Cadet? I've been looking after him
ever since he took up hunting. He's a blazingly fast learner, but
unfortunately just as quick to shoot his
mouth off.  If I don't keep both eyes on him, who's
to say what stunt he might pull? I really
need to put a leash on him. ...What do you mean, "metaphor"?  Never fear. I shall flex my considerable
tongue muscles and find a way to talk the
damned fool out of this. What can I say but "spectacular!"
You put that Gore Magala right in
its place -- its very dead place! You have my thanks. ...Thanks.
See? I even said it. Unfortunately, the fool intends to raise
his Hunter Rank further and attempt even
more ludicrous Quests.  I fear my hair is doomed to go grey.
...What do you mean, "It's almost there"?  Going for a hunt with your companions?
A fine time for it, but be careful.  A wise hunter once told me that you can
lose an eye and still go on, but when
you lose a friend...  That's when life truly goes dark. You're the hunter? You? Really?
...The hunter is you? What? ...Oh, no, no problem at all.
You're just not quite on the same level
as my expectations. I hear your services were procured back
in Val Habar. YOU are the hunter... Incredible. I knew you were on the other ferry from
Val Habar -- you're all anyone talked
about. I just expected someone more...  Nothing. Pay me no mind. But permit me
just one question... Are you prepared to defend the Caravan
from any danger? And I mean ANY danger --
not just the tiny dangers you can handle.  The reason I ask is because if any harm
befalls your companions, you will have
to answer to me. PERSONALLY. Ah, Hunter. We meet again.
I trust you are well?  I'm back, Kindred Hunter! After a bunch of head-scratching at my
old roost and the Guild, I've figured
out what's up with the crazed monsters.  But before we get into that, I brought
a friend. Har har! I come to you today as not only a hunter,
but as an emissary of the Guild.  First, some news. Do you remember the
Gore Magala you vanquished? The Scholars made a heckuva
discovery when they reached the scene of
the hunt.  The Gore Magala's body
was gone.  To be more precise, it seems to have
 shed its skin . Basically, it doffed its old rags in
order to be reborn as something else,
something far more formidable. At some point, the Gore Magala
headed straight for Heaven's Mount,
smashed through the Sanctuary... and went inside, polluting the whole area
with the  Frenzy   that rendered it
berserk in the first place. Yes, that seems like a good name
for it: the Frenzy.  Anyhoo, whatever it is, it's
affectin' the physical capabilities of the
other creatures in the area.  The only other thing we know is that
it comes from the monster's scales.  The Guild has officially classified the
new monster as an   elder dragon   and given
it a unique name.  Since it appears at the peak of Heaven's
Mount at times of calamity, they have named
it after a mountain god... The   Shagaru Magala  ! And guess which lucky and extremely
talented hunter they selected to hunt it?
That's right. You!  The Sanctuary has been off limits
for some time now, but there awaits the
Shagaru Magala. And unless the Guild can confirm you have
eliminated the threat, they will have to
evacuate the villagers from Cathar...  Not to mention take more severe measures to
quarantine the area now and forever.  While they realize the dangers that
accompany the task, they are entrusting
you with the future of this land. That shows their faith in you.  Yup!
Which brings us to our next bit of info... The   Grand Guru   wishes to see you. He's waiting at the   Shrine beyond the
gate there  . Let's see what he's got to say, Kindred
Hunter! What a fine mess I'm in...
If only there were someone to--  Ah! Hunter! Splendid timing.  I'm a bit embarrassed to say this, but
our Cadet has developed a...shall we
say, "crush" on your Guildmarm. If we're not careful, he might even...
Ick. He might TELL HER HOW HE FEELS. In any case, he intends to hunt a
  Gore Magala  all by himself just to
get her attention.  I doubt I need to tell you how that
will inevitably turn out. It pains me to ask such a favor, but could
you hunt down the Gore Magala while
I distract the Cadet with other tasks? I filed a Quest under the name:
  " Crazy Stupid Love ."  If you can complete the Quest, then I
believe -- I hope! -- the Cadet will
abandon his folly. You are the only hunter I know that
can take down a Gore Magala.
Good luck! I will run ahead, find the Cadet, and
delay him with as many mundane requests
as I can possibly think of. Grr...  Ack! Will my troubles never end?  Ah! Hunter! Did you see how I talked
him down? Mine is the silverest tongue
in the land, many say.  *Ahem* But yes. You did a fine job taking
out that Gore Magala alone.
Such a feat is beyond most hunters. Thankfully, the Cadet has given up on
felling the beast. However... *Sigh* Must there always be a "however"?  He still wants to charm the Guildmarm.
To marmcharm her, you might say. This time, he's going after the dread
  Rajang  -- once again, alone! The Rajang is known for being
extremely aggressive and unbelievably
dangerous.  ...Picture the Cadet. Now picture the
Cadet in little tiny pieces. You see where
this is going? Again, I must ask you a favor.  I will try to delay him as long as I can.
In the meantime, will you hunt down the
Rajang for me?  I have filed a Quest under the name:
 " Advanced: Tough Love  ."  All you have to do is beat him to the
hunt. You can do that, right? You're
probably the ONLY one who can. Good luck. I will go distract him by
talking about small furry animals. Ah! Hunter! I was hoping you would return
in one piece. Did you see how I talked the Cadet down?
He should known better than to let me
start a conversation. Ha ha ha ha! Ha. Anyway. By felling the Rajang,
you have once again proven yourself far
superior to the average hunter.  The Cadet has agreed to cease his mad
pursuits. Which is alarming in itself...
Why would he give up unless... Bah.  What matters is that he seems healthier
and more focused now. Let's not think too hard about why. I just wanted to thank you for all your
help in these matters.  Between the Gore Magala and this
hunt, you have truly come through for us.  I would like to give you this medal as
a  token of our eternal friendship . May our bondage be everlasting. ...Bonds. I said "bonds." Ah. There you are. I thought you might
approach me if I stood here like this.
...No no, it's nothing urgent.  When I heard you completed
"The Caravaneer's Challenge," I felt I owed
you my congratulations.  Congratulations. There, you see?
I even said it aloud.  You deserve this award more than
anyone.  ...Perhaps you should go before I get
any warmer or fuzzier.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC061 (Ace Lancer).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC061 (Ace Lancer).txt
SIZE: 5618 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:46:52
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 6b43c0bb5d19e619b4f80c49fa01e4c9e27cf4472c9b266eff69cf9e017d0aa3
================================================================================

﻿I owe the Caravaneer a great deal,
and yet he must see his dream fulfilled
without me. For that, I am sorry.  But our leader is still young, and his
task large. He has the greatest need of
me now.  I think the Caravaneer sensed that, and
started to push me away.  Needless to say, I am glad he sought
out a good hunter to replace me, and may
well have found a great one.  I have noticed the Caravan is larger
than it was in my day. More cheerful, too,
although some of that may be nostalgia. I suppose I can allow myself some cheer
as well, now that I know my departure
has lifted more burdens than it added.  Is that Palico of yours a handful?
Never fear, you can be plain with me.  ...Ah. I thought so. All bravado,
that one! Doesn't want you to look too
deeply, I suppose. But you would be hard pressed to find a
more loyal companion. Trust in your
Palico, and you will see great things.  Behind that bravado is a friend who would
leap into the jaws of a wyvern for you...
Or at least hold them open. Ha! Are you all right now? Good.
You mustn't put yourself out on a limb
like that.  You are a lucky hunter. Our hearts nearly
stopped when we saw what was
happening to your ship.  My team and I have been tasked with
investigating that monster, the
Gore Magala.  We still know very little about its life
cycle or roaming patterns. Until recently,
its very existence was a mystery. I would rather not imagine the
Caravan's fate if you had not been
there to fend the menace off. In my many long years as a hunter, I have
seen countless lands... This, however, marks my first visit to
Cheeko Sands.  A shame, then, that I cannot stay longer.
We expect to receive orders to hunt the
Gore Magala any day now.  It was the Gunner who found your ship
after the Gore Magala attack. She has
the best eyes in our group. The Commander's swift judgment also helped.
He gave the order to ram the monster with
our ship. ...Then again, was that swift judgment
or just temporary insanity? Ha ha! Good day. We meet again.  The Caravaneer tells me he acquired your
services in Val Habar. Me? I was assigned to the Caravan by the
Academy and the Guild. They knew they could not stop the
Caravaneer, but they could at least ensure
he had a safe journey. Later, he and I parted ways. And before
the Guild could assign another escort,
he found you.  But the Caravaneer chose wisely.
None can doubt that now. Good day. You look well.  Did I mention my team and I were just
leaving Val Habar around the time
of your run-in with the Dah'ren Mohran? We picked up your distress flare and
did our best to help drive off the thing.  Amazing, really, that the Caravaneer was
able to pick our vessel out from all
the others. Typical of him, though! Hello. Many thanks for your help the
other day. Hunting with your Palico certainly
brought back memories. You see, we used to hunt together when I
was in the Caravan. I heard many Felyne
tears were shed after my departure.  But, you seem to have rectified the
situation. Ha ha! That Palico has nothing
but kind words for you. Not that you'll ever hear them directly.
Ha ha! It's good to see how little has
changed despite life's twists and turns.  Good day. Have you spoken with the
Commander recently?  He certainly has much to say about you! The time we first met, that time you
came to our rescue, the way you subjugated
the frenzied Tigrex.  And your infamous Shagaru Magala hunt.  He's like a child who has just made his
first friend. But don't tell him I
said that. Ah. We meet again.
I suppose I have you to thank for that.  My wounds from our Gore Magala
encounter have mostly healed.
You have my gratitude. Now I know what it's like to walk the
fine line between life and death.
...And once is enough! Ha ha! Good day. Doing well, I trust?
All of Val Habar gets festive
around this time of year.  If only my duties did not keep me so
damnably busy. I hope you, at least,
get to partake in some of the fun.  I should be very curious to see your
wild side, if you have one. Ha ha ha!  Another day hunting with friends?
Don't forget to bring your Palicoes all
the same. For all the griping you'll get, Felynes
love the extra company. Ah! The infamous hunter. I have heard all
about you from the Caravaneer.  It gladdens me he has found a worthy-
looking replacement.  I, too, am a hunter. My companions and I
are called the   Ace Hunters ... But really, all that means is that
we've been around for too long. Ha ha! ...I must say, the Caravan looks far
livelier than I remember it. Perhaps I
was the one souring the mood. I used to be a member, you see. Ever
since I left, I have wondered if I made
the right decision.  Not that the Guild gave me much choice.
They summoned me specifically for this
new mission. "Monstrous tasks like this are an honor
for any hunter," the Caravaneer said.
"Take care of your new leader." He tried to make my departure easier. And now I know he is in good hands again
with you.  I am confident you will take good care
of him and the rest of the group.  ...How do I know? Because HE knows.
He chose you. Just mind that he doesn't drag you headlong
into danger! He likes doing that. Ha ha!  I heard you have completed
"The Caravaneer's Challenge."
Very impressive! The Caravaneer clearly knew exactly what
he was getting when he selected you as
his hunter. And I, for one, can focus on my new job
without worrying all the time anymore.  Good luck in all your future endeavors,
not that you need it from me. You and the Caravaneer will go far,
I am quite certain.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC062 (Ace Gunner).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC062 (Ace Gunner).txt
SIZE: 5368 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:47:06
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 2a54950ad0647772939978e88b569b523b7315fc11f098e29b0ecafeac0fa369
================================================================================

﻿You must be the Caravaneer's hunter.
Charmed! My companions and I were summoned here
to investigate a monster.  I wish we could stay longer and share a
tale or three, but... Well, perhaps
we'll cross paths elsewhere.  Little Miss Forge was staring so
hard at my gear that I thought
her eyes might fall out.  She's no Troverian, but she's got
genuine talent and an obvious thirst
for knowledge. She'll go far.  Have you seen the Decorations she makes?
They're really quite lovely. One of her
hobbies, as I understand.  I hope you'll forgive our leader for
having such a Whetstone up his behind.
He's really not a bad fellow. And that furrowing thing he does with
his eyebrows is just a tic. He's never as
bent out of shape as he looks.  Are you all right? You're not hurt,
are you? That was quite a dip you took!
Heh heh.  You're lucky to have run into that beast
and made it home alive.  Now you know why we were sent here to
investigate. We have the intel we need.
Now we simply wait for the order. Even a mysterious monster like that can
be taken down with teamwork and a little
resourcefulness. Also, a little of that luck you seem
to have in large supply. Heh!  Oh, the Little Miss was worried about
you. Go take a load off her mind. Oh dear. What did our tactless leader
say to you this time? You'll have to forgive him. He's a
hopeless perfectionist, but deep down
he really just wants you to be safe. I also think he feels a little guilty for
"stealing" the Lancer from your Caravan.  So you see, he's really a ball of
compassion trapped inside a hopelessly
hard exterior... ...and not an unlikeable blowhard who
uses too much goop in his hair. What's that? You wonder why a cadet
like ours is allowed anywhere near such
an important mission? Of course you do. Well, don't worry. The Cadet is sensible
and a fast learner. He picks up new
weapons like lint. He has a weird knack with items, too --
doesn't use 'em the normal ways, but
gets shocking results all the same.  Maybe you could take a leaf from
his book. ...Already on top of it?
I should have known! Heh heh. Hello! How are you faring?
...I'm fine, thank you!  What's that? You want to hunt together?
That would be nice, wouldn't it?
Heh heh... One of these days.  Oh, hello. Faring well? Our fearless leader still can't bring
himself to concede YOU were the one to
take down that frenzied Tigrex.  He'll do anything to avoid going back
to being second fiddle... He's a stubborn one, but once you win
his trust, you have it for good.  A shame you can't win trust with a
shovel to the head. Am I right? Heh heh. Want in on a little secret? Back when the
Shagaru Magala was first sighted in the
Sanctuary...  Well, it was our fearless leader who
insisted on delivering the mission to
you in person. Danger or no danger, I think he felt like
he owed you that much, know what I mean?  The higher-ups at the Guild were
against it, but he basically told them
to go suck wyvern eggs. Comedy gold!  Hi! How's business?
...You want to see my WHAT?!  ...Oh, you said "Guild Card."
Sure thing! Let me get it out.  *Plonk* There you go! I showed you mine,
now you show me yours. ...Thanks. Wow, I like how you've got
yours set up. Makes for a bold statement! She's a piece of work, isn't she?
The Little Miss here. But I wouldn't
have it any other way! I've taken a real shine to her, actually.
We've become pen pals. All thanks to the
wonders of the Courier! Heh heh. Hi there! Can you believe how the
time flies? Every year around this time the Guild gets
flooded with mind-bendingly hard Advanced
Quests. Are you taking any on? Of course you are, you overachiever, you!
Heh heh.  Oh, heading out for a little hunting-
bonding? Beats hunting alone, if you
ask me.  The Cadet in particular has a knack
for teamwork. He's always looking out
for us. I swear he's got a third eye on his butt
or something that sees EVERYTHING --
our Health, our mark's status...  Maybe he's so hyper all the time
because of all the information running
through his head. Maybe he's a genius!  ...Naaah. Heh heh!  Oh, well hello there.
How goes the hunt?  ...Know you? Of course I know you!
You're on the Caravaneer's team, right?
It's a pleasure to finally meet you. Us? We're here to   investigate a
certain monster . Serious business,
let me tell you!  Anyway, we're just doing a quick stopover
at this village. I hear you've come to
build a ship?  The ocean is serious business, too.
I suppose we should both try to help each
other out as much as we can.  Have you met our fearless leader yet?
He's the guy in blue who looks
constipated. ...Yup, that one. Don't worry. He may not be a champion
smiler, but he won't break your
kneecaps either. Heh heh. I hope he didn't lay into you about--
Oh, he did? Sorry.  Try to pretend he's a Sharq while
he talks. You'll look at him a totally
different way. Hiya. I hear somebody finished
"The Caravaneer's Challenge"!
Nice work! I wish you could have seen the Cadet
when HE heard. He was all like, "I'm
gonna be the next to do it!"  Oh, how we laughed!
...At him, not with him.  Well, most of us laughed. Our fearless
leader just did his usually constipation-
face thing. Heh heh. Anyway, I think you should totally be
proud of your achievement. Remember us
once you're all rich and famous!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC063 (Ace Cadet).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC063 (Ace Cadet).txt
SIZE: 3983 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:47:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a552c030564af0c991171ebe0b4f00c7296b91eedf898b4d9da40f901ad6492f
================================================================================

﻿What's the matter? Is your Item Box a
mess? Omiwrog! I can SO RELATE. Here, let me give you this. It'll help
you get things organized BIG TIME. Aw, this giggisux. I TOTALLY don't
have enough materials! Oh, you're a hunter? Nice to meetcha!
I'm a hunter too! A monster hunter! So like, I went to the Smithy to upgrade
my weapon, but guess what? I needed three of something and I
TOTALLY ONLY HAD TWO. Don't you hate
when that happens? Maybe if I get a little more of THIS
material and THAT material, I can
finish upgrading?  Wait. NOOOOOO!
No cashola! My world is EMPTY! *Sigh* Time to go beat the crap out of
monsters so I can earn more money and
then blow it all again. YAY. I'm totally velocipreying that I can
finish this stupid weapon upgrade and
all my shopping... You know, like, before El Commandant
beats my head in.  Oh! By the way, I'll walk you through
weapons training if you choose the one-
star "Training" Quests. Totally gargwawesome, right? I know.  Pop quiz! How many different Extracts
can a Kinsect absorb?
That's right, four! Be creative -- you may have to try
different spots depending on the monster.  Personally, I'm a Red Extract kind
of guy. It makes the hunt speed right
along. Know what I mean? Huh? You wanna know more about Insect
Glaive Extracts? Hmm, okay...
White Extract improves  mobility  . It makes you run faster, jump further,
dance like a total bossitaur...  ...What? You don't dance?!
Anyway.  You can boost the effect by stacking
it with Red or Orange Extract.
It's all about strategy!  Huh? You wanna know more about Insect
Glaive Extracts? Hmm, okay...
Red Extract improves  offense . It changes your attack motions and buffs
you right up!  Stack it with White Extract for even
more punch.  Huh? You wanna know more about Insect
Glaive Extracts? Hmm, okay...
Orange Extract improves   defense . Not only does it boost your Defense,
but it prevents knockbacks. Handy! Stack it with White Extract for even
better results.  Huh? You wanna know more about Insect
Glaive Extracts? Hmm, okay...
Green Extract has   recovery   powers.  You won't notice at first, but be smart
about powering up your Kinsect and
you'll see the difference BIG TIME.  Huh? You want to know how to power up
your Kinsect? Groovios!
Here's the deal...  Go to the Smithy and feed
your lil' buggy. You choose what's on
the menu. It's that simple! Once you've given your Kinsect
enough food, it'll be all set to grow
along with your weapon!  The Kinsect can only change form when you
upgrade your Insect Glaive. But what if
you want to tweak its power? No prob! You can feed it at any time to adjust its
stats, just be aware that it'll be stuck in
its current form until you upgrade. Huh? You want to know how to power up
your Kinsect? Groovios!
Here's the deal...  Well, hold on. Back up. First, you DO
know that your Kinsect can
change forms, right? Once you've provided enough food and
upgraded the weapon a few times,
it can evolve into a new form.  Naturally, you have control over what
direction the weapon takes in the
food you choose.  Oh, are you going hunting with the
others? That is sooo radalos.  And then somebody gets hurt, and then you
use lots of Lifepowder and everyone's so
happy and OH MAN, I need to go shopping. I did it! UPGRADE COMPLETICUS!
...Sorry, I shout a lot. Check out my Sword & Shield!
It's totally the best weapon. No wait,
maybe the Insect Glaive is better.  Aw, jaggitall! I want to carry all the
weapons ALL THE TIME.  So are you here to  upgrade  too?
Of COURSE you are! I can see it in
your face. Gotta keep wits and weapons honed when
so much is riding on the mission.  Upgrading improves Attack, Sharpness --
who knows what! If you're ever like, "Dangalala, this
monster is taking a long time to hunt,"
guess what? UPGRADE TIME! Don't even think twice.
Seriously.  Oh! Speaking of! I had an extra one of
these just lying around, so why not use
it right now?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC064 (Ace Cadet 2).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC064 (Ace Cadet 2).txt
SIZE: 2511 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:47:46
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a22eb1ef541d6f55c697acbcd187bf334fd900fe7e43b346fc5229594329e488
================================================================================

﻿Seriously, how bad-asarios is the Charge
Blade, am I right? You can block in Sword
Mode, hit hard in Axe Mode...  And the best thing about the Charge Blade
is that I can totally teach you how to
use it in its 1-star "Training" Quest. Yup yup! I know. You can't wait to throw
yourself onto my pyre of knowledge.
Take a number, my little disciple. What? You wanna know what our top
secret mission is?  Oh, well, we're totally supposed to--
Hey! No tricking me! You wanna get
me gypceroasted by the Commander?  I'll give you just one little hint
about our top secret mission, though...  It involves...a MYSTERY.
Ooooooh. So, what do you think of my equipment?
Totally cool, right? Majorly awsidrome?  The only downside is that I have been
totally unable to catch any z's since
changing into it. Weird...  Huh? Wassup? You're going hunting with
your friends? Groovios!  Me and the Commander and Lancer and
Gunner group hunt all the jaggin' time. And if somebody gets hurt, I break out the
Lifepowders on the quick and juice 'em back
up, BAM. Is that why I run out so fast?  Hey there, beardy! How much for that
thingy there? Hmm... I don't think I've
got enough.  How about Psychoserums?
Can you hook a 'mobra up? ...What?!
What do you mean, "you're out"?!  But I really, really need a Psychoserum...
I have a top secret mission!
Pretty please?  ...Huh? Oh, hi there. Do I know you?
Wait, oh yeah! I saw you back in
Val Habar. Kechawassup, yo! ...What's that? Oh, you talked to the
Commander?  Seriously? He chewed you out during your
VERY FIRST CONVERSATION? That's a new record! He didn't rathalose
it with me until, like, our second chat!
High five!  I have totally got to introduce you to
the rest of the gang.  Over there by the Antiquary is
the Ace Gunner. She's totally chill. That means she makes good split-second
decisions. I know she's saved my poogies
more than once. Whew! The guy over there talking to your
Caravaneer is a vet. In fact, he makes
your average vet look like a total newb.  He was supposed to do some other mission
or something, but he came back JUST to
help us out. What a dude. And the scary-looking guy in blue who
gave you the blast furnace treatment is
the Commander. He's not so bad, though. In fact, I look up to him. When I first
started out hunting, he took me under
his wing. Hey, maybe he yelled at you because he
thinks you're pretty okay! That's how it
started out with me.  Anyway, we're all friends here.
Go in peace! Heh heh.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC065 (Ace Cadet 3).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC065 (Ace Cadet 3).txt
SIZE: 850 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:48:04
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: f8498607c37fe7081c5411acb44229caf5d489eb28c7f466c7e7bc2eee2d2813
================================================================================

﻿Sup, khezuzu! Have a nice swim? ...Wasn't I worried? Ha! Not one ioprey.
You and I both have been a lot wetter
behind the ears than that and survived!  The Commander was the one who dove into
the water to pull you out. Ker-splash!  ...What? You don't remember?
Omiwrog! That's terrible!  If I were the one who saved you and you
forgot, I would totally trash your
Guild Card and unfriend you. Lame. 

So, what do you think of my weapon?
I'm totally rockin' my technical skills
with the Insect Glaive now. Only problem is, I hate bugs.
...Yeah, kind of a deal-breaker, huh? 

Huh? Wassup? You're going hunting with
your friends? Groovios!  Me and the Commander and Lancer and
Gunner group hunt all the jaggin' time. And if somebody gets hurt, I break out the
Lifepowders on the quick and juice 'em back
up, BAM. Is that why I run out so fast?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC066 (Ace Cadet 4).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC066 (Ace Cadet 4).txt
SIZE: 3751 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:48:22
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a03a5e944f56eac5eb03e3b59513b5b704b435e6595111d5f67370326516e252
================================================================================

﻿Whoa! Haven't seen YOU in a while.
Heh heh. Since you decided to leave me in the
dust and all, I decided to go back and
revisit the basics. That's right. Sword & Shield, baby!
Can't beat the simple stuff.  Hey hey! How's it giggin'?
...What? Why are you looking at me
like that?  It's unusual for me to be wearing the
same equipment twice in a row? HA HA HA.
Pfft, I've bnahaddit with amateurs.  This is S equipment. S, I say!
The S stands for shiny! ...Actually, it
probably doesn't, but let's go with it.  Anyway, I have a terrible sense of
direction, so I think this gear might be
the best fit yet... Psst! H-hey... Did you, um, ever notice
that the lady who mans...uh, "marms" the
lil' Guild stand is a total FELYNE?  ...What? No, not literally! I mean
she's really cute! I should totally go
talk to her.  Hey, so um, would you like to exchange
Guild Cards with me? ...Hold on. I saw that. You just made
a face! I can't believe you! We are SO
not friendromes anymore! Well, actually, I lost my Guild Card
the other day. Oops! So I guess you're
off the hook. FOR NOW.  What's that? You're having trouble
getting your hands on the materials
you need? Rajang-it! I hate that!  ...Actually, I don't, because it never
happens to me. Whether it's Plates
or Gems, I always get 'em first try.  Totally bonkers, am I right?  Hey there! Are you and the Commander
getting along all right? He's one of my
hunter role models!  Yep, C-Wrog's good with basically any
sword, but he's absolutely GODLY when it
comes to the Dual Blades.  I don't think I've ever seen him break
out of Archdemon Mode during a hunt --
like, not even once. Honest to gargwa!  Huh? What are you doing here?
Don't tell me you're here to get your
hunt on like the rest of us?! The monster that's supposed to be the
main event could pull into town at ANY
MOMENT! What was it called again?  It's, um, big... Uh, Big Thing...
Biggoron? No, I'm way off base... Whoa? You really mean it?
Aw, stop! You're making me blush! Huh? Oh, hey, Hunter. The young lady
here is really trying to butter me up. She likes my mysterious, black wings!
She called me an all-devouring evil!
*sigh* I'm in love.  Whoa? You really mean it?
Aw, stop! You're making me blush! Huh? Oh, hey, hunter. The young lady
here is really trying to butter me up. She says I'm like a golden rainstorm!
She called me the terror of the land!
*sigh* I'm in love. Hmm, so she likes tough guys...
I'm gonna have to Quest myself
into shape... *mumble mumble*  Huh? Oh, you're doing the self-improvement
thing, too? Cranking up that HR?
Ha! You're not stealing my thunder! Huh? Wassup? You're going hunting with
your friends? Groovios!  Me and the Commander and Lancer and
Gunner group hunt all the jaggin' time. And if somebody gets hurt, I break out the
Lifepowders on the quick and juice 'em back
up, BAM. Is that why I run out so fast?  Omiwrog, omiwrog, I have GOT to
tell you how happy I am.  Okay, so I wasn't able to hunt that
Rajang, but! ...BUT!  I managed to crag-shot my feelings right
into my baby's heart! Do you know what
she said to me? Her cheeks went bright red and she said,
"Do you think I could get to know
you better?" Aaaaaaaaah! Somebody get me a Cold Drink, so I can
spit it all over them in excitement! Awww, of all the rhenoplotten luck!
I thought for sure that I would be the one
to complete the Caravaneer's Challenge.  But I kind of figured if it wasn't the
Commander or Lancer or Gunner who pulled
it off, it would probably be you. ...Or me! OR ME.  Well, you might have beat me to the punch
this time, but I'm still gonna take a
crack at it myself. Just you wait!  ...No seriously, wait. Because this is
gonna take a long jaggin' time.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC070 (Caravaneer in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC070 (Caravaneer in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 25892 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:48:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: f5eaa7d57e481cce93461f968f7af0ee5f98a2cbfb74e27d167e1ccc2f3939ea
================================================================================

﻿Dundorma is in the middle
of repairs. I reckon there ain't much we
can do...  But go ahead and have a look around
if ya like. Most of the local facilities seem to be
out of commission, but the Assembly
is still runnin'. The entrance is just to the right of that
big stone staircase in front of ya. There's nothin' we can do for Dundorma
right now. Don't worry -- they'll ask for
help when they need it. Har! Now would be a good time to finish up any
other business ya have elsewhere. The Ace Cadet seems to be in charge
of the repairs to the Battlequarters. Why not talk to him first?
Go on, skedaddle!
Don't pretend you're not excited.  Right. First things first. We need to get
the Battlequarters fixed up. I like a
good challenge! Did ya notice the Urgent Quest to hunt
a Daimyo Hermitaur?  It'll be your first time in those
huntin' grounds, so go in prepared. The Battlequarters are as important to
Dundorma as the Elder Hall and the
Assembly. Without the Battlequarters, the town has
no way to defend against monsters.
It'd be crushed flat. We can't leave their cornerstone of
defense in disrepair, can we? Har har!  What's that now?
Unfinished business elsewhere? Well, I reckon it's your choice how you
balance your work here in Dundorma and
your other errands.  But if it were me, I'd want to focus on
the task in front of me. We came all the
way here, after all. Welcome back, Kindred Hunter! And with
so few scratches. Har! Repairs to the
Battlequarters are well on their way.  The Ace Commander was kind enough to
line up yer next job. Skedaddle!
He's waitin' for ya.  Welcome back, Kindred Hunter! And with
so few bruises. Har! Repairs to the
Battlequarters are well on their way.  The lady Gunner was lookin' for ya.
Have you two had a chance to speak? Next up: boostin' the Dragonseer.
Ya have to hunt an Emerald Congalala, right?  Pretty clever idea, usin' Conga gas
in the airship, eh? Smell ya later!
Har har!  What's that now?
Unfinished business elsewhere? Well, I reckon it's your choice how you
balance your work here in Dundorma and
your other errands.  But if it were me, I'd want to focus on
the task in front of me. We came all the
way here, after all. Welcome back, Kindred Hunter! And with
so few scratches. Har! Upgrading the
Dragonseer is goin' just fine.  The Ace Commander was kind enough to
line up yer next job. Skedaddle!
He's waitin' for ya.  Welcome back, Kindred Hunter! And with
so few bruises. Har! Repairs to the
Battlequarters are well on their way.  The Lancer was lookin' for ya.
Have you two had a chance to speak?  The Wyceum won't be finished for
a while, but we should do what we can
to help gather buildin' materials. You're supposed to hunt two monsters in
a row, right? A Cephadrome AND a
Nerscylla? Har! Good luck. The Cephadrome...
That's a large monster that lives in
sandy areas. It swims around beneath the sand and
then springs out to seize its prey.  But I reckon you could probably lure it
out with a Sonic Bomb. Give it a try! I don't know about you, Kindred Hunter,
but I can't wait for the Wyceum
to be finished. Imagine the research they'll be doin'!
The incredible results they'll achieve!  Why, who knows what kinda helpful facts
we could learn from 'em!  The Wyceum won't be finished for
a while, but we should do what we can
to help gather buildin' materials. You're supposed to hunt two monsters in
a row, right? A Cephadrome AND a
Nerscylla? Har! Good luck. The Master of Defense oughta be
returning any time now. Both the Ace Hunters and the
townsfolk seem mighty excited. That's fine by me. All the more reason
to break out the libations once he
gets here. Har! Look who's still in one piece! I see
you're all done collectin' buildin'
materials for the Wyceum.  I'd say "let's get started," but a more
pressin' matter has turned up -- namely,
a legendary monster! The Ace Commander has the details if
you're interested. Skedaddle!  What's the matter? Oh, ya heard what
we're up against from the lady Gunner? I don't blame ya for bein' apprehensive.
The Master of Defense's in danger, and
you're up against a Monoblos. The Monoblos's gonna be a mite
tricky to deal with. These monsters are rarely sighted, but
when they DO show up, they leave a real
mess in their wake.  Ya don't want to be standin' above it
when it bursts out of the sand, neither.
That'd be a grim end for certain.  But every true hunter has to take at
least one Monoblos down, so go at
it with all you've got. Har har! Once you've hunted the Monoblos,
those two Ace Hunters should return
with the Master of Defense.  Then we can really get down to
fortifyin' the town. Now get out there,
'cause you're the one to get it done!  By the by, Kindred Hunter...
Those clouds...  I've seen them before, and let me
tell ya: These fluffies are not yer
regular cirri or cumuli. Hmmm...  Nice teamwork, Kindred Hunter! Glad you
didn't lose any fingers or teeth in
the process. Har! Anyhoo, this is the Assembly. The   Weary Wanderer what's-his-face  
inside has an urgent request for ya. Go see
what he needs. Look upon your work and be proud!
Now that the Master of Defense has
returned, Dundorma is full of vim and vigor! Everybody wants to chip in and do
something for their town. We've received
a bundle of requests just for you! Would ya mind startin' with that
Weary Wanderer what's-his-face?
He was the first to ask. As I recall, he needed a Khezu
hunted or a Powderstone delivered or
somethin'.  So a Kushala Daora is flying
toward the town, which calls for some
kind of defensive weapon...  I wonder what the Master of Defense
has in mind.  I knew he was an expert at defensive
maneuvers, but I had no idea he designed
weapons personally. The Lancer tells me the Master of
Defense holds his libations well. I say we settle it with a contest. Har! I'm glad you're back, Kindred Hunter.
Sprain any ankles out there? Har! The Street Cook was lookin' for ya.
I reckon he's got a favor to ask. What did the Street Cook want?
Oh, he's after prime ingredients?
And ya have to hunt a Pink Rathian?  Now THAT'S a full-course request. Good
food'll pick the townsfolk right up --
if the extra pounds don't weigh 'em down! Hmm... We're runnin' behind schedule
with gettin' the Wyceum runnin'.
Heck, the assistant ain't even back yet.  It takes real guts to keep yer
employer waitin'! I reckon she and I
will get along splendidly. Har! Have ya heard? The Ace Commander can't
handle Rathians. Hasn't got the
stomach for hunting 'em. The feller lives and breathes the words
"mission accomplished," but it seems even
he has his weak spots. Har! Sounds like the Research Assistant got
held up on the Ancestral Steppe. The Wyceum can't continue its work
without her. And that's no good,
is it? Har! Go hunt that Seltas Queen and bring
the assistant home! I hear plans for the defensive weapon
are all finished. The Man and the Little Miss did a
bang-up job, if y'ask me. Certainly
if y'ask her! Har!  Now we have to get our mitts on the
right materials. I can't wait to see how
their masterpiece turns out! Finally, the Wyceum is up and runnin'!  I reckon this is as good a cause to
celebrate as any. And believe me, I've
thought of 'em all. Har har! I happen to have a deep fascination of
my own with the Frenzy.  So many mysteries. So many theories not
yet hammered into fact! The Guild used to call it a virus, for
example, 'cause that's how it looked --
but it ain't one, is it? I can't help but feel there's a deeper
and darker secret writhing somewhere
below the surface.  Can't prove it, of course...
But when my chest hairs tingle, I'm
usually onto somethin'.  What's next for ya?
...Fuel for the defensive weapon?
Ya have to capture a Rathian? Well now, ain't that intrepid of ya.
Good luck! You're the one to get it done!  A Seregios?!  Those things only inhabit very
specific areas. They fight over territory
to prove dominance amongst their kind. The losers become outcasts, and once
cast out of their native habitat
they become weak and die. In other words, ya don't usually see
Seregios on their own. It just ain't
in their biology. So ya can understand how strange it is
that they would start poppin' up outside
their regular habitat.  There's gotta be a reason, but the
only ones I can wrangle out of the
think tank are none too pretty... Hmm... I might've figured as much.
It just makes sense. Life wants to live; it ain't natural for
somethin' to destroy itself. Unless... There's always an "unless."
Hmm...  Fine huntin', Kindred Hunter!
Welcome back. The Master of Defense was worried
about ya. Go let him know you're safe
and sound.  Fine huntin', Kindred Hunter!
Welcome back. Master Tool must've been mighty
impressed, because he wants to ask ya
a favor.  Fine huntin', Kindred Hunter!
Time to get back to dealin' with
that elder dragon. What did Master Tool want, anyway?
Oh, a Black Gravios hunt?  Well, get out there and show that
monster who's boss! Har!  I want to celebrate, but I can't get
something off my mind: That elder dragon
will visit the town again.  And we still don't know the first thing
about why the Seregios showed up. All I can tell ya is that I feel there's
a darker, deeper secret waitin' to be
discovered...  I've felt this before... What was it? Good to see y'alive, Kindred Hunter.
How'd the Black Gravios hunt go? The Ace Commander was lookin' for ya.
Have you two had a chance to speak? What's that now?
An Azure Rathalos is actin' funny?
You have to check it out? Hmm...  I'm not about to question the lady
Gunner's hunches. They're just as on
the mark as her aim.  And anyway, better safe than sorry.
Be careful out there. You're the one to
get it done!  Well, color me surprised!
A Seregios and an Azure Rathalos
going head to head?  The Seregios is a gifted flier with
powerful legs.  They say it's the only contender for the
Lord of the Skies' throne, and based on
what ya saw, they might just be right. The Lancer knows his biology as well as
he knows his huntin'. You don't meet
many like him. That's the main reason he was picked for
the Gore Magala mission and this one.  Field work on dangerous monsters requires
scholarship AND combat ability. Anyhoo, we need to plan out the nitty-
gritties of the field work before those
two hit the road.  You go ahead and finish up
"The Echoing Roar." Make sure
those mines are nice and safe. Har har!  Ya made it back, Kindred Hunter!
Nice work on huntin' that Brute Tigrex
without gettin' yerself killed. Har!  Development of the defensive weapon has
reached the final stretch. The Master of
Defense will tell ya all about it. So, development of the defensive weapon
has reached the final stretch...  We should all be proud for stickin'
together and gettin' it done, even though
the elder dragon could come at any time.  Now, we need to wrangle up an energy
source for the Demolisher.
Good luck huntin' the Stygian Zinogre. Har! The Lancer and Cadet? They took some
junior hunters and went out to do some
field work. Said to give ya their best. All we can do now is wait for good news.
Just be patient. I know there's a lot to chew on, but
head over to the   Wyceum  
for now. They've made a breakthrough.  Let me fret over the frenzied monsters.
Hmm...  If frenzied monsters are still around,
then that means we were too late to stop
the Frenzy from spreadin'.  But Shagaru Magala is long gone.
So what else could be keepin' the
affliction goin'?  It's gotta be somethin', 'cause
it can't be nothin'!  I think there's value in understandin' why
the frenzied monsters turned up in
the first place.  But thinkin' won't give us those
answers -- the Lancer will. And I'll be
right here waitin' 'til he does. Welcome back, Kindred Hunter! Nice work
huntin' that Brachydios. Yer hidden
talents never cease to amaze. By the by, the Lancer sent a letter.
Why don't ya go hear what the
Master of Defense has to say.  The Guildmarm said she's done
overthinkin'. Maybe she's on to somethin'. The world's
mysteries ain't goin' nowhere! May as well put 'em aside and focus on
the task at hand. Now skedaddle!
You're the one to get it done!  The Lancer's the sort of feller
to stay behind and hold off danger
whilst his comrades escape.  But once everyone's safe, he always
makes it back himself, too. Don't you
doubt it. An Apex Seregios...
Couldn't have been a worse time.  Welp, get on out there.
We'll be waitin' for your safe
return, like always. After all, you're the one to get
it done! The sky looks downright inhospitable,
don't it? It's the elder dragon that
summons the clouds up like that. Now, we either stop the storm that's
comin'...or we don't.  Together, we've averted yet another
crisis! Just look at that clear blue sky... What better reward for everyone's hard
work protectin' the town?  Ya did good, Kindred Hunter.
Ya did REAL good.  A shame the Master of Defense had to
move on. I was gonna toast him with one
last libation. But heck! We're a caravan.
We're THE Caravan. We'll bump into him
sometime down the road. No time to mourn goodbyes when there's
still so much to do. Har!  Where should we go? What lofty goal
should we pursue next? So many options.
Har!  You know me, Kindred Hunter! I can't
sit still. I've got a Capital C
compulsion for adventure. Har! That's what I get for drinkin' up to
my eyelids with the townsfolk... We've gotta get those blueprints back
for The Man. Sorry to put ya through
the trouble! The Man ain't the sort of feller to get
angry, but on the VEEERY rare occasions
when he bares his fangs, it ain't pretty. I sure am lucky to find myself surrounded
by so many capable folks. They're always
helpin' me out.  How do I even begin to thank 'em?
...Libations? Where to next? What will I accomplish?
I've hit these questions before. And just like always, I'll find
my answers. Kinda like how you
always find your next hunt.  The Ace Hunters are still based in
Dundorma, but they've all been
given new orders. Busy busy busy! But that's how life oughta be.
A rollin' Uragaan gathers no
Dragonmoss, as I always say. Har! Kindred Hunter, did ya see the
Guildmarm's notebook entry for the
Monoblos yet? Next to all the usual details, she wrote
the name of the hunter who took the
beast down all alone: you! It's a good read, and that's comin' from
a closet bookworm. Har!  ...What's that, Kindred Hunter?
Ya wanna know what my plans are for
tomorrow? Then ask me tomorrow. I never know what
I'll cook up until it's already in the
pot and half boilin'. Har har! Welcome back, Kindred Hunter!
Any booboos? Har har! ...Huh? Ya say you're goin' out huntin'
again already? Well, I won't stop ya.
Hit the skies and don't look back!  Just make sure ya come back! And in
one piece, or you and I will have words.  ...What's that, Kindred Hunter?
Me and the Man? Well, I've known him for ages now.
I can't even remember how we
first met.  Time and libations do take their toll.
Har har! So, what would you like to take
on next? Where should we go?  I've hit this crossroads a few times now.
It's a good feelin', like you climbed one
mountain and can make out a dozen more. 'Course, it leaves y'uneasy, too. What if
ya choose the wrong mountain? Will ya
even make it? But therein lies adventure. I've gone out drinkin' with the Master
of Defense a few times now. He prefers
libations of the Eastern variety. Strong stuff, that. I ran my mouth
straight through to dawn, but I can't
remember half of what I said.  Guess I'll just have to try and
recreate the experience. Har! Where should we go? What lofty goal
should we pursue next? So many options.
Har!  You know me, Kindred Hunter! I can't
sit still. I've got a Capital C
compulsion for adventure. Har! Off to hunt with friends? I'll be here
whenever you're ready to mosey on back.
Happy trails!  Happy trails! We'll be right here
whenever you mosey on back. Dundorma... I can't remember the
last time I visited. The town is under constant attack from
monsters -- because of its location,
perhaps?  The most recent onslaught turned the
town upside down. They're still  working
on the repairs  . The   Assembly   remains operational, but
most of the other facilities are out
of commission. I reckon there ain't much we can do,
but go ahead and have a look around
if ya like.  Psst! Kindred Hunter!
This here is the  Assembly  . The Diva inside will regale ya with
some nice tunes, and they also handle
Arena registration on premises. That  weary feller   who wants to ask
ya a favor has decided to take refuge
here for the time bein'.  Have you and he had a chit-chat yet?
Har har! Good to see ya safe and sound,
Kindred Hunter! And I really mean that.  Never in a million years did I expect
THAT customer to come crashin' in.  That thing was a flyin' wyvern known as
a   Seregios  . Biologically speaking, it makes zero
sense to find one this far from its
natural habitat... There must be a reason -- and I intend
to find out what it is.  Oh! And before I forget.  After all that hard work, you had to
abandon the Quest, and that just ain't
fair, is it?  The folks in town all chipped in so we
could give ya a little consolation prize.  Specifically, it's consolation zenny and
some consolation monster materials. Har! I know it ain't much, but what do you
expect from a pile of pocket change? Har! It's the thought that counts, though,
and I think it was mighty thoughtful. Next up: some   Mega Potions  .
These are from us at the Capital C. We don't want you walkin' away on account
of feelin' disappointed, after all. Everybody skedaddled out into the field
to collect Herbs and Blue Mushrooms and
Honey before ya got back. Har!  Hope they pick your spirits up.
If nothing else, they're tasty! Har!  Ah! Looks like everything's ready.
Why don't ya go check in with the
Guildmarm? Frenzied monsters? Hooey... I'm less riled by them than whatever's
makin' them show up in the first place.  If those critters are still poppin' up,
then that means we were too late to stop
the Frenzy from spreadin'. Shagaru Magala must have already
infected the monsters it passed on its way
to Heaven's Mount.  Thing is, monsters that catch the Frenzy
aren't supposed to live long...  So why is the affliction still spreading
without a Shagaru Magala to spread it? There's gotta be  something else  
out there. Anyhoo, that's where my mind's
been wanderin'. I sense there's a dark
secret wrigglin' around somewhere...  Har! You ARE a livin' wonder. No matter what danger the world casts
y'into, and no matter what monster fate
pits y'against... Well, you always come home in one piece,
don't ya, Kindred Hunter?  The way I reckon, the world ought to
take a leaf from your book. After all,
we all face our hurdles.  And by "we," I don't just mean people.
Villages, towns, entire kingdoms --  even history as a whole hits bumps in
the road. But if we make it past those
hurdles, a sweet reward is waitin'.  What kind of reward? Well, I suppose
ya have to clear the hurdles to
find out. Har har! And on that note, I'd say it's high time
we struck out for the  Battlequarters  . The place was built with the express
purpose of sendin' invading monsters
runnin' straight back to the hills. Once the battle begins, this central
commons area gets turned into a
 makeshift base camp . Then hunters head through   this gate to
stop monsters in their tracks before
they get inside. Ya follow? Good! Let's go get it done, then.
 Ready to drive off the Kushala Daora? All right. See ya on the other side
of that metaphorical hurdle. Har!
And remember... You're the one to get it done!  All right. No rush. Gotta go in extra
prepared, after all. Come give me a holler
when you're good and ready.  All right, Kindred Hunter.
Let's go get it done!  Ready to drive off the Kushala Daora? All right. See ya on the other side
of that metaphorical hurdle. Har!
And remember... You're the one to get it done!  All right. No rush. Gotta go in extra
prepared, after all. Come give me a holler
when you're good and ready.  Har! Would ya have a gander at THAT,
Kindred Hunter? A big, beautiful blue sky
and a bright sun beatin' down... This here is Dundorma showin' her
true colors. And she owes it all to you
and the Ace Hunters.  All this has led me to a realization:
Life is a pain in the hide! Just makin' it from day to day is a
good thing, make no mistake -- but it
takes real effort.  Ya don't get to cruise through life just
eatin' and sleepin' and drinkin' and
laughin' -- though I do try. Har! Our life is built on its own
complexities, and that's a fine thing. Anyway, the Elder Hall and the
Guild wanted you to have this. See the inscription? "To Dundorma's
brave defender, whose achievements will
be the cornerstone of great things."  Here ya go. It's yours.
You should be mighty proud. I know I'm proud of ya, Kindred Hunter.
Meetin' you has changed my life.  Heck, you'll probably change my
AFTER-life. Some friendships just
last forever. Har!  Dagnabbit, where did those blasted things
run off to...?  Oh! Kindred Hunter. Can ya help me out? I may or may not have been drinkin',
and I seem to have misplaced some, uh,
important documents...  They were the   blueprints for some new
equipment  The Man designed.  As I figure it, he wanted to  redesign
a particular piece of gear  so you'd have a
better fightin' chance against monsters. I was supposed to look over   three pages
of the blueprints and elucidate him with
my opinion. But the pages were gone when I woke up
this mornin'. Must've been carried away
by the wind. And believe me, I looked! I asked the lady Gunner and she was able
to locate one of the pages.  But it's right in the heart of a vile
  Desert Seltas 's lair.  The place is a forbidden zone -- most
hunters don't stand a chance of goin' in
there to track down the other pages. So, uh, Kindred Hunter! I convinced the
Guild to let ya in... Think ya could hunt the Desert Seltas?
I'll gather the missin' blueprints whilst
you distract it. The Man ain't the sort of feller to get
angry, but once every ten years or so
he bares his fangs...and it ain't pretty. The Quest I filed is called:
 " Wasteland Warrior ."
The Guildmarm will set y'up. One page at a time, I guess!
If ya survive this, we can worry about
the others. Ya did it, Kindred Hunter! I knew
ya would. Thanks to you, I managed to
snag one of the missin' blueprint pages.  Consider my bacon saved. I was frettin'
I might have to ask the Ace Commander and
face a lecture from dusk 'til dawn. Har!  The lady Gunner is trackin' down the
second page as we speak. It might take a
while longer, so hang tight.  You'll be the first to know once we
get a lead. I sure am lucky to find myself
surrounded by so many capable
folks! Har har!  We found it, Kindred Hunter!
The  second page of the blueprints ! I just heard from the lady Gunner.
It landed somewhere inside
  Seregios   turf.  Which is unfortunate news, considerin'
the Seregios there are tougher
and more vicious than the outcasts. Sad to say, only the finest of hunters
would be able to extract the page...
*wink*  Whaddaya say? Will ya help me out?  I'll gather the missin' blueprints whilst
you hunt the Seregios.  I filed a Quest called:
  " 1000 Shimmering Swords  ."
The Guildmarm will set y'up. The blueprints'll be back together in
no time... I can just feel it! Har! Ya did it, Kindred Hunter! I knew
ya would. Thanks to you, I managed to
snag the second missin' blueprint page. I was frettin' I'd have to ask the Ace Cadet
to help and we'd wind up chargin' in like
fools tryin' to get it back ourselves! The lady Gunner is trackin' down the
third page as we speak. It might take a
while longer, so hang tight. You'll be the first to know once we
get a lead. I sure am lucky to find myself
surrounded by so many able individuals.
Har har! We found it, Kindred Hunter!
The  last page of the blueprints ! I just heard from the lady Gunner.
Unfortunately... How do I put this...  The page has been snagged on a
 Dah'ren Mohran's   spike. I can't help but feel like we've been
down this road once before... Anyway. The Dah'ren Mohran is closing in on
Dundorma as we speak. We need to
do something, pronto!  The Dah'ren Mohran could crush
Dundorma in a single belly flop. So ya see, it's in everyone's best
interest if you chase it away. Town is
safe, blueprints are safe...  Two Gargwas with one stone! I filed an  Urgent Quest   called:
 " Advanced: Moving Mountains  ."
The Guildmarm will set y'up. Go get 'em, Kindred Hunter! Save the
day...and save my keister once again!  Ya did it, Kindred Hunter! I knew
ya would. Thanks to you, Dundorma is safe and
I managed to snag the last missin' page
of the blueprints.  That's a whole rasher of my bacon
you saved. Har! I can't even begin to
tell ya how grateful I am.  But good news: The Man should be able to
finish that  souped-up equipment  now. Don't forget to swing by the Smithy.  I told the Lancer about your latest
exploits and he chewed me out.
Said I put ya in too much danger. Har! Anyway, he said I should show more
appreciation for yer hard work, so I
jotted down some words... Hot dang it, where did that blasted
piece of paper fly off to? You, uh...
mind helpin' me look for it? Har har! Holy smokes! Sakes alive!
Break out the libations!  I can't believe ya managed to hunt
your way through a Quest like
The Master's Test! Hoo hoo!  You're the Capital C's pride and joy,
Kindred Hunter. I hope ya stick with us
until the end of days.  The world's never seen a better monster
hunter, and I've got strong words for
anyone who says otherwise. Har!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC071 (Guildmarm in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC071 (Guildmarm in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 43374 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:49:16
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 2765ee75580e5717cce8b04e481d15da3b335ad2d5803ededecf70ad780c6338
================================================================================

﻿Okay, here come the Quests. Drop by any time! Sorry, Doodle. I hate to break it to you,
but you don't have enough zenny.  Um, Doodle... Are you trying to pull
my chain? Because you don't meet the
requirements for this Quest.  dummy Looks like you've already accepted
a Quest. Should I cancel that one? You got it, Doodle. One Quest
cancellation coming right up... DONE! Okay! I get it! Hands off.
Yeesh. You can keep the same Quest.  Here's what's on the questing menu. Wow! A Quest that doesn't require a Fee
up front. I love freebies, don't you? That'll be   zenny. Happy hunting! Come back with all your
appendages, please.  I'll take care of the cancellation.
That's what Guildmarms are for! Huh? Getting cold feet? Oh! Hi there, Doodle.
Could you drop by your house?
Your Palico is inside waiting for you.  I'll stick around here and get the
Quest Counter set up for you.  dummy Mysteries! Enigmas! Gore Magalas!
A hunter's life is full of excitement!
...And bowel-loosening danger. Safe journey, Doodle.
I'll stay here and think happy thoughts.  Gravios...needs to get stabbiosed!  Tell him I said, "Smooch!"
No, wait, don't, that sounds dumb...
*Sigh* I hate love. It's quarter past a monster, so you'd
better get moving, Doodle.  Give it everything you've got, Doodle!
For the loot!  Oh, I wish I could go along...  I wonder what sort of monster it is.
Take lots of notes for me! I'll be cheering for you! Listen for my
distinctive laugh upon the wind!  Show the boss what you're made of!
I'll keep him sober long enough to notice. I just KNOW that today is going to be
full of success! At least I think I know. May your Health stay in the green and
your Stamina never peter out. May your Rewards be plentiful and your
carcass never be carted campward!  Tell me all about the nitty-gritties
when you get back! Bring me back a nice souvenir!
...No, seriously, you better.  Seize the day! And, more importantly,
seize those rare Rewards! *Psst* Can I have a cut of the Rewards? Go get 'em, Doodle! Take me with you! Put me in your Pouch! Take me with you! Put me in your Pouch!
...What do you mean, "I WON'T FIT"?!  Ahh, such dedication! This is so exciting!
If I loved monster hunting any more,
I would probably explode. May your critical hits be blazing.  Life is busy, busy, busy! All set? Then make like my notebook and
loose...leaf, I mean, leave! Get it? No? Oh...  You're the one to get it done!  As the boss would probably say --
you're the one to get it done!  Take this lock of my hair to protect you
from-- Hey! Where are you going?!  Good luck! We'll be here praying you
come back in one piece.  Happy hunting! We'll be here debating the
best way to cook Raw Meat.  Bye! Try to be back before dinner.  Okay. Be careful out there. Take care of yourself.
...I mean it! Stop giving me the eyebrow.  See you soon, Doodle! Remember, drink Cool Drinks in moderation!  I'll be waiting for our hero's return!  Calm down; don't freak out.
...Oh! Sorry, I was talking to myself.  You're the one to get it done!  Stay sharp out there, Doodle!
You're our shining ray of hope! Oh! Hi, Doodle. Have you seen the Cadet?
He's a bundle of energy today. We're
talking deluxe, limited edition bundle. I don't think he'll rest until the whole
world knows how proud he is to be helping
out with the Battlequarters repairs. What? The Battlequarters repairs?
Sure, I'll help with the fixing...
by fixing you up with a Quest! That was a joke, because "fix" has both
literal and idiomatic meanings.
You can laugh whenever you're ready.  Anyway, the Quest is called
"Skiff Scuttler." Don't forget
to pack those Cool Drinks, Doodle! The Battlequarters were built
especially to drive away monsters.
True story!  When danger arises, they set up a
rudimentary base camp in the middle of
the commons and meet the menace head-on. So, Doodle -- have you been to the
Assembly yet? ...You don't say.  The Diva there will sing you a lovely
tune if you drop by.  Hi, Doodle. The Commander was looking
for you.  He was doing that whole wrinkle-his-
eyebrows thing... Does that mean he's
hungry? I'm bad at reading expressions.  Hi, Doodle. The Gunner was looking
for you. She has a nice smile, doesn't she?
Cool and confident. But she's got nothing
on a Rathian -- THAT'S a winning grin. Hi, Doodle. The Commander was looking
for you.  He was doing that whole wrinkle-his-
eyebrows thing... Does that mean he's
hungry? I'm bad at reading expressions.  Hi, Doodle. The Lancer was looking
for you. He's always so smiley... Don't you
sometimes think it's kinda weird?
...Don't tell him I said that. I have two Quests where you'll be
gathering materials for the Wyceum: "Facility Facilitation" and
"Hunt-a-thon: Nerscylla."
Choices, choices! Sounds like the Master of Defense
will be arriving soon.  I guess he was the Commander's mentor?
Heck, everyone around town calls him
"Mentor." I hope that means he's nice... It would
bite the Baggi if he turned out to be
super strict and chewed us out. Sorry, Doodle. As exciting as the Master
of Defense's arrival is, the Quest-doling
out must go on.  We've got a Wyceum to build --
and by we, I mean you, because you're the
hunter and I'm the one who takes notes.  Oh no, no, no! We have the Wyceum
materials, but the Master of Defense
is in trouble! A legendary hero is about to be born!
Talk to the Commander! ...Sorry. Repeating
the whole story takes too much effort. Um, Doodle... Shouldn't you check in
with the Gunner and nail down some kind
of battle plan? ...You don't say.  All right, Doodle.
It's Urgent Quest time!  First up: "Operation Turn Doodle
Into a Hunting Legend!"  And after that, "Operation Once the
Master of Defense Arrives We Can
Really Fortify the Town, And How!" Only once you've wrangled a Monoblos
solo... Only then can you call yourself
a true hunting legend! Time to show the world what you're
made of, Doodle. Make those Dundorman
jaws drop! You did it, Doodle! Or should I say
"Champ"?  You looked so cool out there, I went
through, like, FIVE notebooks trying
to take notes. You tree killer, you!  I've gotta say, though, the Master
of Defense seems nice. Not gruff,
not a cliché... Thoroughly likable!  Oh, by the way, someone's waiting for
you in the Assembly. Have you
dropped by yet? Wow. So that's the Master of Defense...
He's...surprisingly not a grump!  Oh, the Weary Wanderer's requests?
They're called "Hide-and-Freak"
and "Take a Powderstone."  You can pick either one.
Got any preference?  The whole town is excited now that the
Master of Defense is back. Heck, even
I'M excited, and I haven't even met him! Gotta say, though, the news about the
Kushala Daora sure is a shock.  I couldn't see it from here, but
apparently it's currently roosting in
the Battlequarters.  I hope the Ace Commander made it through
their confrontation... Oh! There you are, Doodle.
The Street Cook was looking for you.
Have you caught up with him yet?  All right -- let's do this!
Time to hunt a Pink Rathian and
score some prime ingredients! Oh, did I mention? Apparently, the Ace
Commander has some kind of hang-up when
it comes to Rathian hunts. Maybe he doesn't like insulting royalty?
Hitting a lady? Who knows... ...Hm? What's that, Doodle?
Capture a Rathian?  Hang on, I'm checking... Nope, I don't
have any Quests like that. Guess you'll just have to wait.
Want a cup of tea?  Doodle! A Seregios in a
Rathian's...?!  That's not supposed to happen! How?
The Caravaneer's gone looking! Agh!
...I can't even complete my sentences.  How about that Urgent Quest?
Hunt that Seregios and they can
put the sandskiffs back in operation.  Then we can get back to the main event:
"Now You're Gonna Fortify Dundorma...
Woo! Yeah!" Remember that one?  You should, Doodle, because I named it.
Catchy, isn't it? Hi, Doodle! Nice work hunting
that Seregios!  The Master of Defense is waiting
for you. Better go see him, huh? Woohoo! We can get back to fortifying
Dundorma now. All the townsfolk
are tickled pink! Master Tool was especially
thrilled. He was as perky as an
Emerald Congalala's crest. And THAT'S perky! Woohoo! Now we can get back to fortifying.
Folks are tickled pink! Not even an elder
dragon can wreck this mood.  Which means it's a great time for
"Black Rock Down," if you ask me.
...You didn't ask me? Welcome back, Doodle.
The Ace Commander wanted to see you.
He did his patented eyebrow thing. And it SOUNDS like the Gunner saw a
suspicious figure. Ooh, mysterious! Okay, Doodle. Time to take on
"The Echoing Roar" and fulfill
the town's hopes. Right? The Lancer and Cadet will be leaving
to do some field work soon.  I hope they make it back. You too!
Hope for everybody! I'm an equal-
hoper-tunity Guildmarm!  Oh! Hi there, Doodle. Great work hunting
that Brute Tigrex. The Master of Defense wanted to see you.
Sounds like the defensive weapon project
has hit the final stretch. Exciting!  If you make it through "Forge Ahead,"
then the Battlequarters will be equipped
with the Demolisher. We're so close... I can just smell that
bacon of hope already! ...I mean "beacon."
But bacon would be nice too. Doodle, I'm experiencing what might
very possibly be guilt. Have I done my part to protect the town
from the elder dragon? Could I have done
more? Everyone else has worked so hard...  You know, when the Lancer and Cadet went
off on their field work...it was odd.  The Commander had this REALLY serious
look on his face the whole time. It was
a little unsettling, to be honest...  Whoa! Doodle, what's wrong? You look
like you've seen a ghost!  Well, uh...the  Research Assistant  
was looking for you. Think you could
stop by the Wyceum? A f-frenzied monster!
The Doodle is closing in on--
Aw, dang it.  I'm doing my jumbled sentences
thing again. Oh! Before I forget...
The Wyceum!  Doodle, you should drop by there!
I hear they made a big find!  So, Doodle... What do you make of this?
The Master of Defense got some kind of
letter, right? And after he read it, he started
staring up into the clouds, deep
in thought. ...Do you think the letter said it
was going to rain? Here for a pep talk before your big
Deviljho hunt? Okay!
Ready? YOU'RE THE ONE TO GET IT DUNG!
...Wait. Do over, do over. I messed up
the last word.  You're pulling your weight, the Lancer
is pulling his weight... I figure,
"Guildmarm, it's your turn!"  I'll stay here at my bloodless battle
station come hell or high dragon!
Consider THIS fort held down! If nature wants to sling maladies and
menaces my way, I'll stop them the usual
way -- by slinging YOU at THEM!  Stay sharp out there, Doodle! You're
Dundorma's shining ray of hope!  The Capital C has come this far
defending the town. We're not about
to back down now. That would make it Capital C for "Chicken"!
Bwak-bwak-bwak! ...Why are you cringing
at me like that?  I used to peg myself as a sort of lone
wolf-marm: on my own, with no one to
really understand me. But joining the Caravan and now helping
the people of Dundorma taught me I
have a place with others.  Now that I've found that place, I'll
never run from it -- no matter what the
danger!  Ready, Doodle?
 Talk to the Caravaneer and the battle
to drive off Kushala Daora will begin . It's a special Quest that will take place
in the Battlequarters. Keep your cool
out there, okay?  The Ace Hunters are already out
in the Battlequarters.  Go show 'em what you've got, Doodle!
As a team, I know we can keep
Dundorma safe! The dark clouds cover Dundorma
like a shell...  But if those skies can clear...
Then perhaps I... Doodle... You did it!
The skies have cleared. They're so blue -- full of endless
possibilities. You know, Doodle, I'm having a real
feel-good moment. It was so nice to join forces with the
The Master of Defense and the townsfolk
and make a difference! It made me realize how lucky I am to be
part of this Caravan. Doodle, this is the last favor I'll ever
ask of you.  Once you finish "Advanced: All in Its Place"
and I finish my notebook, I'm thinking
of leaving and going to the Academy.  Now that you've cleared the skies,
I know there's a lot more out there
for me to experience.  I can't get that moment out of my head,
when the dark clouds cleared and I REALLY
saw the sky for the first time. I felt like I could do anything,
Doodle -- like I could go anywhere that
clear blue sky touched.  Doodle, do you think I've got it in me?
Do you think I can make a difference in
the world?  I've only ever kept all these
scribblings for myself, but now I wonder
if they have a greater purpose.  Maybe I'M the one to get it done.
I just need to figure out what "it" is. Oh! Doodle, the Cadet gave me these
monster materials.  I'm using them to create a new pouch.
Maybe you can take a look once I'm done.
What do you think? Doodle, I've got some new info about the
Everwood.  Some Guild agents out in the field have
reported the discovery of a   brand
new area  . You'll probably be able to reach it the
next time you visit.  By the way, Doodle -- have you ever
thought, "Boy, I sure would like to go
on those old Low-rank Quests again!" If so, try pressing the   X Button   while
you're at the Quest Counter. That will get you switched over to Low-
rank Quest listings. Very handy!  So, Doodle, are the repairs to Dundorma
going smoothly? ...You don't say. Well, *I* say we do what we can to make
the town tough enough to withstand TWO
elder dragons at least.  I like tough. I like elder dragons, too.
...I'm not really helping, am I? Gosh, Doodle, I know High-rank Quests
must be tough when the Guild can't
deliver your Supply Items right away.  But didn't the Street Cook have something
on the menu to speed up Supply Item
delivery? Maybe I imagined it...  So, Doodle -- have you been to the
Assembly yet?  The Diva there will sing you a lovely
tune if you drop by.  They say the healing power of her songs
keeps hunters glued to their chairs.
...Is that good or bad?  Doodle, I've had a tremendous thought:  What if we used Cathar's Melding Pot to
stock up on town repair materials?  The ten-million zenny question is whether
materials that big will fit inside the
kid's pot. Seriously.  Are you and the Courier getting along
well, Doodle? ...You don't say. I always enjoy our chats. He helps me
stay in touch with a good friend who
works far away. He's such a sweetheart!  Have you been to the Dunes during
the day yet, Doodle? It's a hotbed of
scalding sands and rock.  The heat there will sap your strength
faster than you can say "severe sunburn."
Make sure you pack lots of Cool Drinks. You'll never guess what I just saw! Master Tool, the owner of the Market,
gave the Courier a bright...
red...APPLE... Ugh!  Now that I've seen it, I can't unsee it!  That afroed Felyne in your house! Why was he rummaging through the Item
Box, anyway? Highly suspect.  Today is much like the days before and
the days to come, Doodle.  You walk up to me, I give you Quests,
and then you walk away. That's life.  Ho hum, Doodle...
I wonder what kind of crazy idea the
Caravaneer has brewing in his head now.  I guess once he's decided what to do
next we'll be off on another adventure!
I bet it'll be rife with danger, too!  But you know me, Doodle. I'm not afraid
of anything...as long as you're here
to protect us! Doodle, I've got some new info about the
Everwood.  Some Guild agents out in the field have
reported the discovery of a   brand
new area  . You'll probably be able to reach it the
next time you visit.  By the way, Doodle -- have you ever
thought, "Boy, I sure would like to go
on those old Low-rank Quests again!" If so, try pressing the   X Button   while
you're at the Quest Counter. That will get you switched over to Low-
rank Quest listings. Very handy!  Have a gander at this pouch, Doodle.
Pretty spiffy, am I right? The way it squishes and squirms in my
hands, like a living, breathing entity!
Ahh...  I feel like I've captured its monster
origins (as you've described them to me)
to a T -- a horrifying T. Yessir.  Have a gander at this pouch, Doodle.
It's a work after my own heart.  The way it clicks and clacks and...
combobulates? I don't know, I'm
running out of verbs. Anyway. I feel like I've captured its monster
origins (as you've reenacted them
for me) to a horrifying T. Definitely.  What fine weather, Doodle. Truly. It's the kind of weather that reminds
you how precious the small things are.  Are my family well? Did I remember to
hang the laundry? What in the world
will tomorrow bring?  It reminds us we're only human. Oh. Doodle.
...This letter? It's from a friend who
lives in an island village.  She works the Quest Counter there.
We became close when we trained together
at the Guild. She's such a character! Always looking for attention, always
ready with that disarming smile of hers... She was the first person to look at
my notebook and not burst into
fits of laughter.  For that reason alone, I love her.
I hope you get to meet her someday!
Anyway.  Where do you suppose the Master of
Defense is now, Doodle?  Has he reached the scene of his next
mission? What is he defending today? Maybe today, he's simply riding a farm
cart beneath the blue, blue sky.
Life is so wonderfully unpredictable. I ran into the Caravaneer while he was
having a drink the other day.  He said he'd like to take the Master
of Defense out for a drink again
sometime soon.  I'm not sure he remembered the Master
of Defense had even left, but the
sentiment was touching, at least. Hi, Doodle. The Ace Commander was
gazing up silently at the Elder Hall
the other day. For some reason, he reminded me of the
Master of Defense. Funny how we pass
the little things on, huh?  Oh! Doodle. Hello.
The Caravaneer and the Lancer still play
that board game of theirs.  The last time I watched a game, the Lancer
won. And let me tell you, the Caravaneer
was none too happy about that. Ha!  Doodle, would you like some complimentary
tea from the Tea Lovers Cooperative?  Right now, the TLC only has four members,
but the Gunner expressed interest in
joining as well. Doodle, get a load of this! The Cadet, also known as the lone member
of my Monster Appreciation Initiative,
reviewed my notebook. And -- can you believe it? -- he really
seemed to like it! Most people just look
at it and make sighing noises. The Cadet and my island friend are the
only two people to look at it and NOT
roll their eyes. I'm lucky to have met him, chatterbox
that he is... Hi, Doodle! G'bye, Doodle!
Yup, that's right. The Quest Counter
is closed for the time being. I'll open up again once you're done
hunting with your friends. ...Hey, it's
not like I get any other "me" time! Doodle! Doodle!
It's finally happened!  People finally NEED us again!
The Capital C has once again been
called into action! All that time spent demeaning yourself
with those ordinary quests must have
proved something to the Guild...  because this new Quest they gave you
is a DOOZY!  A doozy for a Doodle.
Clearly this is fate. An epic new operation like this needs
an epic name. I've got just the one...  "Good Thing You Busted Your Butt And Made
Good with the Guild, Because Now You're
Gonna Fortify Dundorma...Woo! Yeah!"  *Huff, huff*
All good names end in "Woo! Yeah!" So are you into it, Doodle?
Do you DIG it?  Are you ready to help the Ace Hunters
and townsfolk protect Dundorma from
an elder dragon?  Don't worry. You don't have to do
it alone. You just have to do most of
the dangerous work. Speaking of! I need to  tell you something
important   before giving you the Quest. The areas around Dundorma are chock
honking full of monsters that are waaay
more dangerous than any you've faced. That means the Guild  may not be able to
take you all the way to camp . It also means they  might not be able to
deliver all your Supply Items right at
the start of the Quest  . Of course, they'll do their best to get
them to you ASAP, but you need to return
the favor by not being dead yet. So make sure you're extra prepared. The
Quest could start you just about anywhere,
so you should be ready for anything. ...There. Now you know, and knowing is
three sixteenths of the battle!  Okay then, time to check out the
 Urgent Quests  column.  You'll find a Quest to fix up Battlequarters
called   " Skiff Scuttler  ."  Your objective: to hunt a hard-shelled
Carapaceon called the  Daimyo Hermitaur  . It looks like the Guild is sending you to
the   Dunes  during the day.
Wow, you'll get lots of sun! In fact, the sun might kill you! The place
is as dry as it gets. Make sure you go in
prepared, Doodle, or you'll be sorry.  Might I suggest some Cool Drinks?
Unless you like sweating out your
very lifeforce. Some people do, I guess.  If you're looking for Dundorma's
ever-important Quest Gate... It's right over there.
Don't get lost, Doodle!  Oh! Doodle. The Gunner filled me in.
You need a Quest to power up
the Dragonseer, right?  I decided to give the Quest a snappy name:
 " Hot-air Buffoon ."
You'll be hunting an   Emerald Congalala . Have you ever looked up at the sky
while out on a hunt and seen the
Dragonseer? If you wave at it, it will show you where
large monsters are for a short period
of time. Honest to Gypceros!  I sure would like to wave at it sometime.
That right there is living! Oh! While I've got you, I received a
letter to you by arrow from a Wild Palico
roaming the field. Let me read it to you.  "Lately, we've been researching long and
hard to meowster a slew of   new Fortes  
and skills.  "They make Palico Team Attacks stronger
and purrform all kinds of other useful
functions. "Dare I say, we might be geniuses!
Clawsmically blessed, nya? Anyway, if
you can find us, you can hire us!" ...Wow, Doodle! That does sound pretty
impressive. New Fortes? If you don't
hire 'em, I might scoop 'em up first! The arrow seems to have fwooshed in from
the  Dunes . Could that mean the Wild Palico who
sent it is roaming that area AS WE SPEAK? Anyway, get out there and hunt that
Emerald Congalala! That's an order!
...Well, no it's not, but do it for me? Oh, hi, Doodle. Did you hear about the
Wyceum?  The folks there study the Frenzy and
investigate all kinds of scientific wonders,
like why Bitterbugs are bitter. Leave it to Dundorma, huh?
Always standing on the pinnacle
that is monster intervention.  Once the facility is complete, all we need
to do is summon the Research Assistant,
and voila! You'll be drowning in nuggets of
researchified wisdom that will aid you
in the hunt!  Now, what were those two Quests again?
Oh yes...  One is "  Facility Facilitation ."
The other is " Hunt-a-thon: Nerscylla  ."  You can do them in whichever order
you like. Your call! Oh, and if you don't mind me going off on
a tangent-- What do you mean, I always
do anyway? *Sigh* Is it true the   Master of Defense
will be arriving soon? They say he used to be the  Ace Commander's
mentor  , you know. What do you suppose
he's like?  What if he's the gruff drill sergeant type
and makes us all do push-ups in the mud?
My note-taking arm won't be able to take it...  The Master of Defense is on his way!
He's an old hunting hand who used to be
the Ace Commander's mentor.  In fact, just about everybody around here
dotes on him and calls him "The Master."  Unfortunately, a  Monoblos   is closing
in on the sandskiff carrying him. This, as you may have surmised, is
really freaking bad, Doodle. The Monoblos is a legendary
menace that some folks claim was the
reason monster hunting first started.  Hunt one of those suckas and you can
consider yourself a real champion. ...Yup, it's finally time
to establish yourself as a legend, Doodle!  Anyway, once the Master of Defense
arrives, we can start fortifying the town
in earnest.  We'll make it the best darned elder-
dragon-repelling town the
world has ever seen! And we'll make you a champion unlike
anything the UNIVERSE has ever seen! I don't know what's bigger than the
universe, so I'll just stop right there
before anyone's brains implode. Whew! ...Now then, Doodle, let's have
a gander at those Urgent Quests.  Oh! Doodle! I heard all about the
Street Cook's "OP-PURR-ATION FLAVOR." It sure does make me hungry thinking
about a nice dinner made from fresh
prime ingredients... Which is pretty weird, considering I have
NO IDEA what prime ingredients taste
like! That's haute cuisine for you.  Anyway, I've got the Quest right here:
 " In the Pink ."
You'll be going to the   Dunes (night) . Unlike during the day, you're going to
freeze those doodly buns off, so make
sure you pack plenty of Hot Drinks.  Now go! Fly like a ravenous Rathalos! Oh! Hello, Doodle. The Professor already
filled me in.  You need to hunt a  Seltas Queen  , right?  It sounds like his assistant steered
clear of the danger and took a detour
into a village near the Ancestral Steppe.  They serve great tea there.
She's practically on vacation.  Anyway, the Quest is called:
"  Ladykiller  ."  A bit of fun trivia for you: The herbs
growing near the Ancestral Steppe are
famous for their use in tea. Not that I'm asking you to bring some
back for me. I would never be so
presumptuous. Ever. Never ever.  The   Rathian ...
A queen's flames to keep the town safe... Has anyone told you? The red and green
buildings of Dundorma symbolize the
Rathalos and Rathian.  The colors show the town's thanks
for nature's blessings. ...Or maybe somebody just had fun with a
color wheel. Who knows! Anyway, the
Master of Defense left you this Quest. It's called:  " Nocturnal Commission  ."
You need to capture a Rathian. ...Kind of moving, isn't it? The proud
queen's flames protecting the town from
violent storms and hard, freezing rains alike. Oh no! After all that work getting the
defensive weapon designed, the sandskiffs
are out of service? Indefinitely?! Material delivery is *gasp* ON HOLD?  What are we gonna doodle, Do?
Uh, I mean, "do, Doodle." Sorry.  Anyway, this throws a wrench in our plans
to fortify Dundorma. Look at all
those frowny faces around town! *Sigh* ...No, we have to think positive.
Calm yourself, Guildmarm! *slap*  Doodle, the Guild has tapped you to
handle this Urgent Quest. It's called:
 " Dance of a Thousand Blades  ."  You'll be hunting a   Seregios  . My book says it "rends the heavens
with its sharp scales and demolishes the
earth with its powerful wings and legs."  ...Um, okay. Hyperbole much?  Well, whatever the case, the fate of
Operation: Fortify Dundorma rests
squarely in your hunterly hands. Get out there and put the purge on that
Urgent Quest! ...Whatever that means! Oh! Hello, Doodle. I hear you need to
investigate an  Azure Rathalos  .
Well then, have I got the Quest for you!  Presenting...dunh dunh DUNH!
 " An Omen in the Skies  ."  They say the Azure Rathalos has some
seriously bizarro movement patterns. Oh, by the way, did you know the Gunner
has amazing vision? I'm so jealous. I'd be happy with, like, 20/20, but I'm
pretty sure she's 20/0. She can see to
INFINITY. Probably.  Then there's poor me. I spend hours
looking for my glasses before I remember
I'm wearing them.  Or I accidentally put a second pair
on top of the first. That actually
happened once. They called me "six-eyes."  So, Doodle... I hear Seregios have
been turning up all over the place.  The Lancer and Cadet are going to head out
and investigate... You know, Doodle, the Guild wouldn't know
half as much about the Frenzy or its
symptoms if it wasn't for the Ace Hunters. They gave us a fighting chance! It was the Commander and Gunner who
figured out the "virus" was caused by scales
scattered from Gore Magala...  And they shrugged off their wounds and
dragged themselves home just to make sure
we got the message. Now that's courage!  Can you imagine the tough decision they
had to make? They knew how big a discovery
they'd made. But they couldn't all turn their backs on
their foe, or they'd have been decimated. The Lancer and Cadet risked life and limb,
staying behind to buy time so the
others could escape with the intel.  It's terrifying to take on a danger you
don't understand. And I don't want you to
think I don't appreciate what you all do. Whether you're out there investigating,
or here protecting the town, what matters
most to me is that you stay safe, Doodle. And on that note, I present you a Quest
that will give people here hope again.
It's called:   " The Echoing Roar  ."  Well, Doodle... It looks like
Dundorma's beacon of hope is
nearing completion.  ......  Y'know, ever since I was a little girl, I've
longed to know more about monsters.  My Deviljho-like hunger for knowledge has
driven my every action. ...And I know people
think I'm weird for it, but that's okay. I made that choice a long time ago.
I decided I would see the world no
matter what, and know it top to bottom.  And you know, Doodle, I haven't spent a
single second regretting it, either.  I'm glad I joined the Capital C, and
learned about Gore Magala, and
Shagaru Magala... And that I had the chance to visit
Dundorma and make a real
difference to the people here.  My notebooks are chock full of notes
that prove my life means something, even
if I'm still figuring out what that is. ......  Maybe this is it. Maybe I'm supposed to
protect Dundorma from the coming storm. Maybe we're both meant to give the people
here a little more light. And on that note, your Quest:
  " Forge Ahead ."  Promise you'll be careful out there.
After all, I've taken many notes
over the years... But you're way more important
to me than they are, Doodle.  D-D-Doodle!
The Cadet told me everything! The adjustments to the completion aren't
yet weapon! F-frenzied monsters
are showing to start up! ...AGH! I'm so gosh-darned flustered,
I can't even talk! Breathe, breathe...  We took care of the Shagaru Magala menace!
Why is the Frenzy back?! Seregios are popping up all over
the place w-without any rhyme or reason.
As if our hands weren't already full! Anyway, I'm freaking out big time, but I
can still give you your Quests.  The Quest in q-q-question is called:
 " Advanced: Glacier's Bane  ."
I hope you can stay c-calmer than me!  We're drowning in Seregios,
frenzied monsters are back... ...And now a  frenzied Deviljho  has
turned up during the precious final
adjustments to the defensive weapon. The only thing more messed up than the
world right now is my ability to wrap my
head around all of this...  But work is work. Time to untangle my
brain and 'marm up! Watch me dole out Quests without fear!
They can have my notebook when they
pry it from my cold, dead hands! Here's your Quest, Doodle:
 " Advanced: Tyrant's Maw  ."
You're the one to get it done! I'll be here making intimidating
game faces until you get back! Grr!  Right then, Doodle. Let's get right down
to business. I'm all business. Business
is my middle name. His Immenseness has requested you
specifically for a task which I've filed
under  Urgent Quests . Safe hunting. See you when you return.  ...What? Is something wrong?  I'm acting strange, you say?  Well, after our last talk, I figured I
should stop being so scatterbrained and
take my work more seriously. I don't want to be the weak link in the
Caravan's chain if another Apex
Seregios shows up...  or the Kushala Daora returns.
I have to be fearless as a rock!
Still as a ripple-free puddle! Collected as a pile of monster dung on
the cool, dry earth! ......  Yeah, you're right. I like the old
me better, too. I'm not cut out
for serious. The Capital C has come this far powered
by craziness, so why change now?  If nature wants to sling maladies and
menaces my way, I'll stop them the usual
way -- by slinging YOU at THEM!  Stay sharp out there, Doodle! You're
Dundorma's shining ray of hope!  Dark clouds as thick as monster
carapace have closed in on Dundorma...
Boy, does my heart feel heavy. Do you ever get scared? Sometimes I wonder
about that when I see the way you walk in
and out of danger so effortlessly... Y'know, if these clouds were to clear,
it would make me feel so much better...  Good luck out there, Doodle. We're all
with you in spirit.  Doodle... You did it!
The skies have cleared. They sky's so blue... I'd nearly forgotten. Thank you for smashing through the dark
cloudy carapace that was choking my heart.
Nothing can stop me now! Big news, Doodle! Happy news, at that!  You just got clearance to take on
  Guild Quests  ! Bravo!  Guild Quests are  Quests with a twist
issued by the Quest Bureau.  Once you've investigated monsters while on
Expeditions and received clearance
for a Guild Quest...  Well, then the Quest will be temporarily
added to   Guild Quests   in the menu. Careful, though. You need to do one more
step before you can attempt the Quest. You have to   register the Quest   using
Manage Lists. This is important! Only registered Guild Quests can be
  attempted at any time from the
Gathering Hall , so don't forget!  As for the Guild Quests themselves,
they have unique rules. Rule #1: Completing them raises the
difficulty level, Rewards, and more.  Rule #2: You can exchange Guild Quests
using StreetPass.  Talk to the Courier in the red
cap if you want to change your StreetPass
settings.  Also, keep in mind that when you exchange
a Guild Quest the level will be what
it was when you  first received it . Anyway, that's the gist of it.  The Everwood sure is lovely, though...
I wish I could go on Expeditions.
Be sure to stay safe and have fun out there. Hey Doodle! Congrats!
...What? You haven't heard yet?
Well then, allow me to make your day! You've been given clearance to take on
 G-rank Expeditions  !
Hooray! If you wanna give 'em a go, just open
the   World Map  and touch the
G-rank Expedition icon.  Doodle! The Guild wants you to  investigate
the Everwood  . A rare monster has been sighted there,
and I'm afraid there's no time to lose.  Since this is direct from the Guild, I'll
file it under   Urgent Quests . Be aware that the rules for this Quest
are the same as those of standard Quests.  For example, you will fail if your Health
runs out three times. If you pull it off, though, the same
monster may turn up during Expeditions.
Just a hunch I have. Anyway, pack those Antidotes and
let's get this show on the road! Doodle! The Guild wants you to  investigate
the Everwood  . A rowdy monster has been sighted there
and I'm afraid there's no time to lose.  Since this is direct from the Guild, I'll
file it under   Urgent Quests . Be aware that the rules for this Quest
are the same as those of standard Quests.  For example, you will fail if your Health
runs out three times. If you pull it off, though, the same
monster may turn up during Expeditions.
Just a hunch I have. Anyway, pack those Antidotes and get this
show on the road! Doodle! The Guild wants you to  investigate
the Everwood  . A beautiful but dangerous monster has been
sighted there, and I'm afraid there's no
time to lose. Since this is direct from the Guild, I'll
file it under   Urgent Quests . Be aware that the rules for this Quest
are the same as those of standard Quests.  For example, you will fail if your Health
runs out three times. If you pull it off, though, the same
monster may turn up during Expeditions.
Just a hunch I have. Hrm hrm... Oh!
...Oh. I guess I just don't have what it takes.
...Wait. What am I saying? I didn't come
this far just to--  *Gasp* D-D-D-Doodle! What a nice surprise!
I didn't notice you SNEAKING UP on me. This letter? ...Wh-wh-what letter?
I don't see any letter-- HEY, NO! HOLD ON!
GIVE THAT BACK YOU-- *sigh* All right... *huff, huff* You win.
I'll come clean! The whole Dundorma crisis has got
me thinking...  Maybe I can and should be doing more to
protect people from monster threats.  So I decided to submit my Very-
Noteworthy Notebook to the  No. 5 Scribe
at the Royal Academy  for review.  The Caravaneer made the introduction
for me. What a guy.  Anyway, I just got the most depressing
response back. "While most erudite and elucidating, a
number of gross omissions disqualify your
records from academic submission, ahuhuh.  "A compendium on this scale requires at
least a few more specimens to be considered
exhaustive. Very sorry, ahuhuh."  He didn't actually write "ahuhuh" in the
latter, but I sort of picture him as
having one of those snooty laughs.  Anyway, I'm not giving up yet. I wrote up a
Quest for one of the monsters I'm missing, but
it's so dangerous that everyone's said no. ...Wait a second. Doodle, you'd agree that
we're more than just business associates,
right? I can call you a *gulp* friend? Do this Quest for me as a personal favor.
Pretty Plesioth with cherries on top?
It's called:  " Striking Gold ."  Of course, I'll make sure you're amply
rewarded. I've been saving up zenny
during our adventures. Thank you so much, Doodle!
You should see the number of holes in
my research you helped me fill!  I went ahead and forwarded my New-and-
Noteworthier Notebook to the Academy.
They're sure to accept it this time! I just hope the knowledge I've gathered
proves useful to someone. Anyhoo, I can't tell you how grateful
I am! I'll make sure you're the first to
hear when the Academy writes back. Doodle! Doodle! The Royal Academy
  wrote back  ! See? A letter from the
No. 5 Scribe.  I was just about to open it.
Shall we have a look together?
Let's see...  "Lamentably, you seem to have failed to
grasp the essence of my previous
communication, ahuhuh. "Your research continues to prove
egregiously deficient in regards to
capacity and complexity, ahuhuh.  "As it pains me to continue to
reduplicate these laborious rejections,
I suggest you not submit again, ahuhuh." ...What? Well, POO!
Another ding letter.  I suppose I'll just have to beef up my
body of work a little further. Maybe I
should delve into Frenzy research.  I certainly won't be giving up.
Right, Doodle? Here, I've already speed-
drafted a new Quest. It's called:  " Advanced: Beyond the Pale ."
Would you be kind enough to do it? Of course, I'll reward you for the
trouble. My marm-coffers haven't run
dry just yet. Thank you so much, Doodle!
You should see the number of holes in
my research you helped me fill!  I sent my Never-More-Noteworthy Notebook
to the Academy. It's a shoe-in this time.
I guarantee it!  You'll be the first to know once they
write back. Ooh! Doodle! Look!
A  reply  from the No. 5 Scribe at the
Royal Academy!  I was just about to crack it open--
Hey, hey, back off! I already called
read-aloud dibs! *Ahem*  "The world is best served by cold, hard
facts seen through a unique lens, ahuhuh. "Needless to say, few are capable of
uncovering novelty within data countless
others have already scoured, ahuhuh.  "I respectfully advise you train your
mind on more ambitious specimens and
seek your breakthrough there, ahuhuh." ...Hmm. That wasn't as soul-crushing as
the last rejection. And he's right. The world needs insight,
not just intellectual inundation.  ...I guess it's time for me to be
REALLY honest.  If the Scribe there accepts my research,
I'm thinking about leaving the Caravan
and   enrolling in the Royal Academy  . I know that becoming a Scribe myself is
probably just a pipe dream, but I still
think there's a place there for me -- not just helping the Scribes or the
Scholars, but helping the whole world.  ...Doodle, there's nothing I want more.
Except maybe learning to speak Rathian. If the Academy wants me to focus on
tougher monsters, then so be it. Will
you do this new Quest for me? It's called:  " The Silvery Spear ."  I'm...kind of running out of money,
but this is important. I'll pony up
what I can as a reward. Thank you so much, Doodle!
You should see the number of holes in
my research you helped me fill!  Caravaneer? Caravaneer! Ugh, where is he? I
need his bird to send my Noteworthier-
Than-Ever-Before Notebook to the Academy!  If I get in, I think I'll start doing
backflips! My glasses will PROBABLY
FALL OFF MY FACE. Thank you, Doodle! I'll make sure you're
first to know when I get an answer.  Doodle! I got a reply from the No. 5
Scribe at the Royal Academy! This time
it's an   encouraging answer  . "Despite my protests thus far, I
must acknowledge your efforts and
enthusiasm, ahuhuh.  "And yet I find my thoughts returning
to the rare and elusive   Gore Magala ,
ahuhuh. "How does one stop the writhing beast
from returning to its lair? How does
one tether it to this world? "Only three have written of Gore Magala.
Should you contribute some new information,
your data would be invaluable, ahuhuh. "May wisdom favor you and make it so."  ...Ohh. Oooooh!
I can feel it, Doodle. I'm close! Unfortunately, that means I need to ask
one last personal favor of you. I feel
ashamed for asking so much, but... This is probably the most important
thing I'll ever ask of you as a
*gulp* friend.  I've named this   Urgent Quest  
 " Advanced: All in Its Place  ."  If you do this for me, I'll give you
every last zenny I've got. I'm not
afraid to risk it all.  Please say yes.
This could change my life!  Welcome back, Doodle. I've been looking
forward to seeing you.  Thank you so much for hunting that
Gore Magala. I got the whole thing on record and
sent my Noteworthiest of all Noteworthy
Notebooks to the Academy. They wrote back right away.
I've been saving the letter to read
with you. Here goes...  "My lady, I consumed your latest
research with great fascination.
You have my humblest respect, ahuhuh. "Into the world you have loosed a bolt
of truth fletched in singular insight.
You have changed how we think, ahuhuh.  "I should be most honored to have you
here among us. Consider this my warm
welcome. "Before I forget, please pass my
warmest regards on to the greatest of
Scribes, my old master. Travel safely."  ......  Doodle... I can't even begin to
thank you.  I want you to have this   Stuffed Toy Frog  
in honor of what we've achieved. Please take care of him for me, okay? ...What's that? Leaving?
Oh! Ha ha ha. About that.  It seems that I may have exhausted my
life savings to pay you for all
those Quests. Since I can't afford to pay for
transportation to the Academy or
support myself once there... Well, it looks as though I'll have to
stay with the Caravan for a while
longer until I can save up. Oops. But you don't mind, do you, Doodle?
We can all have even more adventures
while I drag myself out of bankruptcy. If you're lucky, I'll learn nothing
from the experience and you can fleece
me for another small fortune. Heh heh. *SIGH*  Well, color me Qurupeco!  I knew you were a superstar, Doodle,
but The Master's Test?
You managed to pull THAT off? I'm starting to think you're a greater
menace than any monster I know about.  Maybe I should pencil "Capital C Hunter"
into my notebook. In fact,
I think I will! It MUST be done!  Where's my scribble-pen? Hold still
while I immortalize you in...
No, wait, where are you going?!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC072 (The Man in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC072 (The Man in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 12134 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:49:38
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 4aa97a79a5fbd40b6667b251d242a04eb9b3c725c5ece1d13db29e5135b474eb
================================================================================

﻿Now. Shall we?  Until next time.  dmy I have been to Dundorma before. It is a strong town. One that springs
back no matter how many times monsters
lay waste to it. This time will be no different.
You will see. We must all help the people of Dundorma.  I will help in my way.
You will help in yours.  The Master of Defense will arrive soon. If it is true he was the Ace Commander's
mentor... I can't help but wonder if
the Scatternut fell far from the tree.  Thanks to you, we have all the materials
to build the Wyceum. But where is the Master of Defense?
He should have arrived by now.  The townsfolk are growing concerned.  Fancy a brief tale of heroism?  Long ago, a Monoblos was
closing in on a certain hamlet.  The people were overcome by fear.
But then a young man took action. Alone, with nothing more than a simple
weapon and armor, he challenged the
monster...and he defeated it.  His hunt went on for days, as legend
has it.  There, up there. You see?
Those clouds. ...A storm is coming. I might have known you would be able to
hunt that Monoblos. But perhaps I prefer the joy of doubting,
and the pleasant surprise that follows. So I must design a defensive weapon
for Dundorma...
It is a great honor.  I promise you now: I will devise
something not even an elder dragon
can move. My design for the defensive weapon
is finished. A worthwhile endeavor.  However, it incorporates several
bold new ideas.  I will need some rare materials,
and a hunter to gather them. *Ahem*
...That is called an "insinuation."  I find myself surprised yet again.  A hunter's life can certainly not be
called a dull one. I feel for the townsfolk. Just as the repairs and improvements
were starting to shape up, a Seregios
has appeared...  It would take the wind out of
anyone's sails. Fine work hunting that Seregios.  Now that the sandskiffs are operational
again, the townsfolk can continue fortifying
the town against the elder dragon. Seregios are appearing in every region?
Ill tidings, to be sure.  We must complete the defensive weapon,
and swiftly. The defensive weapon will be
finished soon. As the architect, it's an
exciting time for me. I intend to help calibrate the
defensive weapon.  Don't waste your strength worrying
about us. You just go after those
frenzied monsters. What could the frenzied monsters'
appearance signify? We had best prepare ourselves
for anything... Did you hear?
...A letter from the Lancer.  The Master of Defense will tell
you all about it. Do not worry about the Ace Lancer.
He will be fine.
You know him as well as I do. Leave the town to us and keep a
clear head. Focus your strength on the most
important task that lies before you.  As visitors, it is easy to forget the
significance of this town. To the people
here, this town is home. Help keep it safe. Use the weapon
in your hands to protect those
you care about.  Stand tall, friend. When the rain
beats you down, stand taller. If you do that, even the hardest trials
will wash right over you. Fine work repelling the attack.
It pleases me to hear my weapon
served its purpose. The Commander saved the Cadet,
you say? Another sign things will be right
in the world. Go on. ...Hunt.
You hunt, I keep you armed.
So life marches on. Ah, I just remembered. I have   news  . I wish to improve   the design of
a certain type of gear   so you can
take on more powerful monsters. The Caravaneer is giving the
blueprints a final look-over.  I hope it pleases you.  ...Hm? You look as if you have
something to say. What is it?  Is it about the Quests the Caravaneer
has been giving you lately? He is hardly the sort to pin people
with personal favors... So try to keep an open mind and
honor his requests. Whatever he is asking, I can assure you
it is not out of self-interest. Dundorma has done it again. Their craftsmen work together
swiftly and with great skill. All the more reason to protect
this place.  Look at how gung-ho the townsfolk are.
I must do my own part to help with the
repairs and improvements. Commander and Cadet, mentor and pupil...
Each gives the other purpose.  And what of you?
Do you have a mentor?  The Courier has been greedily eyeing
Master Tool's apples all day...  If a Quest is proving too difficult,
you might want to rethink the elemental
properties of your equipment.  Those seemingly simple values might
be enough to shift the tide.  When selecting armor, wearing a
complete series may not be enough to
trigger the Skills you want. This is when Decorations really shine.
Utilize them.  Rare materials do not always a
fine piece of equipment make.  Consider Skills and elements in addition
to Attack and Defense. Utilizing the
strengths of your gear is vital.  Never be discouraged just because you
lack the materials you want most. Ahh...another day.
Shall I make you some new equipment? Now you have cleared the storm, you
can go out into the world with pride,
clad in the armor we have forged. A Master of Defense and the Ace.
They made each other's lives better. I am glad that whatever forces brought
them together, did.  Where to now? What shall we seek next?
Naturally the Caravaneer will jump
at the chance for adventure...  We will follow you to the ends of
the land. The Caravan's journey is
your journey now!  Off on another hunt so soon?
You are starting to take after
the Caravaneer. The Caravaneer does not always
stick to the same nicknames... Perhaps what he calls us is a
function of his mood. Perhaps.  I often get requests from hunters who
wish to be outfitted like you.  I tell them I will fulfill their requests.
...As soon as they are good enough to
bring me the materials.  Have the Meownster Hunters been busy? Remember to collect Scraps.
Your Palicoes need good equipment
as much as you do.  If a Quest is proving too difficult,
you might want to rethink the elemental
properties of your equipment.  Those seemingly simple values might
be enough to shift the tide.  When selecting armor, wearing a
complete series may not be enough to
trigger the Skills you want. This is when Decorations really shine.
Utilize them.  Rare materials do not always a
fine piece of equipment make.  Consider Skills and elements in addition
to Attack and Defense. Utilizing the
strengths of your gear is vital.  Never be discouraged just because you
lack the materials you want most. How goes the hunting with friends?  If you obtain good materials, bring
them here. My armor will make you the
talk of all your comrades.  Well... Here we are.  But never fear. If a storm blows,
let us be your bulwark. A hunter needs no greater
purpose than to defend others.  So take the weapons we make for you,
and give it your everything. Simply...remarkable.  It prides me to know one of the
Caravan's own saved the town. Since my grandfather's generation,
mine has been a family of wanderers. To join forces like this and protect
something... To unite behind a single,
shared purpose... I must confess, the sensation is new
to me. Again, you have enriched my life.
And for that, you have my gratitude.  Ah. Just the person I was looking for.  The Caravaneer has finally approved
my design. My suggested improvement to
to a certain type of armor...  I am happy to report I can now produce
a  new piece of equipment   which
is of higher quality than usual. Remember to thank the Caravaneer.
He has been very busy -- hence the
delay in reviewing the blueprints. In fact, he has not touched his usual
libations the whole time. Apparently there are things that trump
both his curiosity AND his reckless
thirst.  Has he told you what he's been
busy with? Heh, well. Keep it to
yourself. I am not one to pry.  ...So. I hear you have completed
The Master's Test. Wherever the Master of Defense is
today, I have an idea he would be
glad to hear it.  Let us pray we see him again soon.
I know I would like that.  I see you have obtained some
Seregios materials.  Melee weapons forged from those materials
gain a  special property  . I've tried forging with those materials
many times...and it seems they cause
blades to be born anew...  Also, you may be able to  restore the
weapon's Sharpness   by evading with it
drawn.  Use Seregios weapons effectively,
and you may no longer need to
carry Whetstones. Bowguns you make with
Seregios materials gain a
new property as well. Evading while the weapon is drawn will
 load ammo automatically . You might never have to manually
load the Bowgun again. Whichever type of weapon you
choose, the benefits are obvious.
Why not try making one?  I see you have obtained materials
from a special Gore Magala. Using special Gore Magala materials
in weapons causes those weapons to gain
a   special property  . How to describe it... The weapons gain
both   positive and negative
Affinity values . As you know, a positive Affinity increases
the chance of causing heavy damage
and a negative one does the reverse.  But, a weapon forged with these
Gore Magala materials can   convert a
negative Affinity to a positive one.  How? It all happens after you overcome the
Frenzy virus. Let's say you have a positive
Affinity of 20 and a negative Affinity of 40.  The negative Affinity of 40 will turn positive,
giving you a total positive Affinity of 60. Hunt with enough skill, and just maybe
you'll be able to get yourself the Affinity
you need to win the battle.  Ah, just the person I wanted
to talk to.  There's been a breakthrough in
smithing technology: Now I can make
your weapons even stronger!  The process is called   Honing  . With this technique, I can take a weapon
that's been upgraded as much as possible
using normal means, and make it even better.  But...there is a catch.
Only weapons of Rarity 8
or higher can be Honed.  And, I'm sad to say, I can't upgrade
Relics, and the weapon must have
already reached its max upgrade level.  There are three ways you can Hone
your weapon:  The first,  Attack  ,
enhances your attack power. The second,   Defense ,
beefs up your defensive power.  The last,   Life  , lets
you recover Health when you attack.  Bring me a weapon that can be Honed
along with the necessary cash and materials,
and I'll forge you a REAL weapon!  Ah, before I forget -- let me run you
through the basics of   Palico equipment  . To forge equipment for your Palicoes,
I need special materials called   Scraps  . The   Meownster Hunters  can
be used to obtain Scraps, if you want to
make your Palico's new gear.  I will do the heavy lifting, of course.
Just bring the Scraps here, and I will
forge the equipment. Naturally, your Palicoes must equip new
weapons and armor for them to be
effective. Select "  Manage Equipment  " from the
Palico Board to equip new weapons and
armor. If anything is unclear, check out   Help  
on the Touch Screen. While I have you here, let me tell you
about  Bowgun Limiter Removal  . Removing the Limiter allows you to  alter
the weapon  . For example, removing a Light Bowgun's
Limiter slows down movement and takes
away your Backstep and Rapid Fire. However, it also increases your ammo
capacity and allows you to switch ammo
types without executing a reload. Additionally, you can reload all your ammo
at the same time by pressing the X Button
and A Button at the same time. With Heavy Bowguns, removing the
Limiter slows movement and takes away your
ability to evade right after firing.  You lose Crouching Fire as well.  However, you can load more ammo, including
 WyvernFire ammo , and your firepower
gains a significant boost. Your shield will also soak up more damage,
if you happen to have that part attached.  ...You can see how great an effect all
this can have on how you use your Bowgun.  There is a catch, though. To remove the
Limiter, your Bowgun must have a  6-star
rarity or higher . Even after removing the Limiter, you can
restore its original functionality by
selecting "  Reinstall Limiter ."  But I have done more than my share of
talking for the day. Why not just give it
a try? You are more than capable.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC073 (Felyne Streetcook in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC073 (Felyne Streetcook in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 11822 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:51:18
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 3c0fb7c0a3a829fe92dc1736e73a661f83f5b4acd2c2f439d0c27b3d7a5a14e6
================================================================================

﻿So, what do you want? Come again, miao-kay? I'll open for business soon.
Come back later, miao-kay? Ah, Hunter. Back for more?
Sorry but no seconds! You've
eaten enough for today, miao-kay? dmy Dundorma is a fine town --
wouldn't you agree, Hunter?  The people all came to sample my food.
I really had my paws full, miao!
How will I keep up with the orders? Hunter, I have come up with the meowst
ingenious plan, miao.  I will cheer up the people of Dundorma
by meowking them sumptuous food. And then, when the crisis has passed,
I will be purrceived as a hero! My meals
will have saved the day! *purr*  The Master of Defense should ap-purr
in town any day now. They say he's a real big shot, miao.
What if he's really hard to please?  Hmph! I'll just have to win him over
with a meowth-watering meal. Food solves
any purroblem!  Is something the meowtter, Hunter?
I noticed the Aces' faces were sunny-
side down, miao. And the Master of Defense!
Why is he keeping me waiting? I want to
cook for him, but he's not here. Miao! That Monoblos is one rough customer.
But if you want to call yourself a REAL
hunter, you'll just have to best it, miao. Is it going to rain, miao?
Look over meownder -- I see black
clouds on the horizon. Meow-whoa! The townsfolk have really been
knuckling down, nya? Time for me to do
my purrt.  I need to think of some way to give these
hard workers the most meowth-watering
meal possible.  Any ideas? I'm drawing a blank...
Meowst...keep...thinking... The elder dragon came to the
Battlequarters while you were out
hunting... I nearly jumped out of my fur!
It didn't stay long, but what if it
mee-ownders back our way again?  Remember, the Quest is called
"In the Pink."  I need your help getting my paws on
those prime ingredients, miao!  With Prime Ingredients, I can
make a delicious meal for
the townsfolk.  It will make you purrky, too.
Very, very purrky.  You know, the Master of Defense is
much friendlier than I purrdicted. My plan to win him over with a meowth-
watering meal has failed, miao!  Or has it succeeded? I cannot tell.
My mind is darkness.  Im-purr-essed by my super nutritious
food? It picker-upped the town in no
time flat, nya? My meals will make you purrky, too.
Very, very purrky.  You should choose   prime ingredients
when you order a meal, miao? You will soon find yourself showered with
Skills, and you will receive a
Stamina boost as well. ...Genius, if I do say so myself. *purr*  Did I meowntion I have come up with some
 brand new Skills  ? I can picture the exclusive Guild
interviews already, miao! Everyone will
be staring at me! How's my fur look?  The townsfolk seem really down in
the dumps. ...A Seregios on
the purr-owl? But those meownsters only live in a few
habitats, and there aren't even that
many, miao? What is it doing here? The townsfolk have perked right up, miao?
Must be beclaws the Seregios is gone. But the elder dragon is still on the way.
When will it arrive? Doesn't the
Caravaneer know? No? Meow. The townsfolk seem really worked up.
What's the purr-oblem? ...A Seregios? Really?!
What in the world is going on?  What's wrong, Hunter? ...The Lancer
and Cadet? Oh, they already depurrted.
I don't know where.  But I made sure to send them off with
full tummies. Good field work and full
tummies go paw in paw. I hear fur-renzied meownsters
are back... Purrhaps you should stop by the
Wyceum. Those two have big brains! And lately
they made some kind of breakthrough.
Maybe they can help you, miao? Don't get your fur in a twist over me.
I'll busy myself cooking for the folks
calibrating the defensive weapon, miao. And if things get hairy, I can hide from
the fur-renzied meownsters inside the
Master of Defense's purr-asol. A bird came with a letter for the
Master of Defense. I wonder what it
could purrtain to.  They say the Deviljho is a big
eater -- but I object, miao! The true big eater is you, Hunter.
You meowst defend your title!  Go show that meownster who is the king
of chow-down. Go on! It feels like eons have passed since I
started cooking for the artisans working
on the weapon last night. But the smiles on their faces after
they took a bite made me purrsist.  Clearly my meowth-watering meals have
become a ray of sunshine in these dark
and overcast times.  Wait -- say no meowre. You are off to
face the fur-renzied Seregios,
aren't you?  Still, I know you will return victorious.
How do I know? Beclaws you have me on
your side! Nyahaha! Come rain or shine or meownster storm,
this Felyne will never flinch! After all, I always have the Master of
Defense's purr-asol to hide in.  The time has come to purrtect the
townsfolk once and furr all! You watch
their backs. I'll watch their tummies. And once everyone is safe and the Guild
comes to interview you, remeowmber to
use the words "team effort." Miao-kay?  The Aces already stopped by for a bite
to eat. So did the townsfolk. And the
artisans.  Good thing I meowd extra!
Picker-uppers for everyone! Our purrfect victory is assured.  What trying days these have been: people
crowding my kitchen, expressing their
hunger in chorus. "Feed me! FEED ME, NYA!" But you were the one I wanted to
im-purr-ess with my frypannery. Only you.
Miao.  The Master of Defense is gone?
Really? That's a disapurrtment.  But at least I jotted down all his
favorite recipes for the next time
he visits, miao.  Deep question: is the sky really
overcast, or are WE just undercast?
Hmm? *Sigh* Purrhaps my mind is getting
cloudy, too. I hope the sun comes
out soon...  This town fur-tification stuff is taking
a long time. But one meownch of my meals,
and the job will go twice as fast! ...Miao? I'm just pulling your chain,
hunter. I am a cook, not a miracle worker!  Using fresh ingredients will increase
how often Skills are triggered, miao. Always use a Voucher and fresh
ingredients before you embark on a
purr-ilous hunt. Never skimp! I already meow-morized what everyone in
the Caravan likes to eat, and soon I will
have the Aces figured out as well.  I will not rest until I have ensconced
meowself in the culinary zeitgeist, nya. Hunter, do you know what kind of food
the Master of Defense purrfers? Hmm, this calls for a scrupulous
investigation, miao. Leave it to me. Food tastes a meowsand times better
when you share it with friends under
peaceful skies, miao?  I hope we can share a meal again
tomorrow. And the day after. And the
day after, too! Using fresh ingredients will increase
how often Skills are triggered, miao. Always use a Voucher and fresh
ingredients before you embark on a
purr-ilous hunt. Never skimp! Guess what? I just purrpared a fancy,
full course meal for the Aces, nya!
You really missed out!  ...Oh. I purrobably should have invited
you, huh? Miao well.  Ah, Hunter. Going hunting again today?
You're so strong. But don't forget your
meal before you go. It's common sense. Nice day we are having, miao? Purrfect
weather for tucking Raw Meat under both
arms and dashing off to hunt!  Hot sun and armpit heat will roast the
meat while you go, miao? Feast your peepers on these, nya?
The Man and Little Meowstress at the
Smithy made me new utensils! You humans are so generous. Maybe I
should learn something about sharing
my-- HANDS OFF MY UTENSILS! *hiss* You should try rolling some dice to
decide your ingredients. Slap some
random on your sandwich, miao? ...No? You just don't understand good
fun when you see it. Thirty-six
purrssible combinations, nya! The Wycoon is meowghty fond of
Cathangeafish, nya? He would be
tickled pink if you brought him one. Oh my. Who are your hunting
purrtners here? ...And are they hungry?
Eat up before you go, nya!  Hunter, guess what! I have the meowst
meowvelous idea!  Everyone in town has been putting in
such long hours to purrpare for the
Master of Defense's arrival. I am so moved, nya? So I decided to help
out by making  meowre delicious food  for
the townsfolk and their special guest. But I need your help. You see,
I found the purrfect place to get my paws
on   prime ingredients . The purroblem is I can't a-purr-oach beclaws
a nasty  Pink Rathian   is in the area.  Will you do me a favor and hunt it? I want to make sure I have a meal
waiting for the Master of Defense when
he shows up. ...Huh? ...What?! The Master of Defense
arrived in Dundorma ages ago?
Don't be absurd.  ...Nyagh. You are serious, aren't you?
I can see it in those egg whites
you humans call eyes... *Sigh*  I have lost the element of sur-purr-ise.
Still! A delicious meal can always
be late to a party. Hunt that Pink Rathian, and I will use
the prime ingredients to whip up a
picker-upper of a meal, miao. You and the Master of Defense and the
townsfolk will wish you had bigger
tummies. I filed a Quest with the Guildmarm
called " In the Pink ," nya. And never fear!   You will reap the
rewards , too, if you purrcure me those
prime ingredients.  ...Very thoughtful, miao? You may
purr-aise me whenever you are ready.  Hei, Hunter, listen to this. I've got lots
of prime ingredients in stock now.
Again, this is thanks to you. *purr*  And there's more: As a thank you for
the prime ingredients, I created   new
Skills  ! Now I have your attention, miao?  Hurry and eat lots of meals so you
can try all the new skills!  Oh. One more thing. This is the best news:
If you choose prime ingredients when you
order, you will get a shower of skills!  And as a bonus, you'll get a Stamina boost,
too. *purr* I am a culinary genius! Nyahaha!  I realized something, Hunter. The reason the town came together and
worked so hard was not, in fact, beclaws
they ate my food.  They did it beclaws this is their home,
and they wanted to purrtect it. Not along ago, I would have turned up
my whiskers at such a notion, but now I
understand purrfectly.  After all, now I have a home, too!
Let's purrtect it together. I'll do the
cooking, and you do the heavy lifting. Meow, you ARE a mystery, Hunter.  How a pussycat like you managed to
chase off the Kushala Daora,
I will never know.  Purr-plexing, yes! But still very
im-purr-essive. I must concede that you
are the town's greatest defender. But purrhaps it would not be an
exaggeration to say that my meals played
a purr-ominent role in your success? If anyone interviews you, me and my
kitchen would ap-purr-eciate the
name drop, nyahaha.  Hunter, I have come to the realization
that purrhaps it was NOT, in fact, my
meals that ensured your success. Nyagh... What have I done?  The Guild came by to interview me, and
I told them you could not have
meownaged without me. Purrhaps I should issue a retraction?
...Oh well, too late. Congratulations on completing the
Master of Defense's challenge. That makes
you purrticularly special!  ...But, you must still pay for your meals.  Mi-hao, Hunter! Good news! Your hunt of
the Rathian gave the Troverians
safe passage... So they built the   Fancy Spit   for us!
Miao we can  cook Raw Meat  here in the
kitchen. It's SO easy. Step 1! Sit at the table.
Step 2! Choose to eat a meal
or use the Fancy Spit. But don't forget Raw Meat.
No Raw Meat, no Spit!  Anyway, if you don't understand anything,
check   Help   in the upper left
corner of the Touch Screen.  Miao, time to cook! Mi-hao, Hunter. You hear?
The Wyverian merchant man delivered
a wonderful gift for the kitchen! I named it the  Cook's Spit !
It's a very useful machine. It lets me help
when you use the Fancy Spit to cook.  Ask anytime! Your grill, miao grill.
But! You must pay Caravan Points,
miao-kay?  Hei, Hunter, look at the brand new kitchen!
So big! More high level ingredients!
All thanks to you, Hunter. Xie xie! ...But, you must still pay for your meals.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC074 (Wycoon in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC074 (Wycoon in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 19125 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:51:34
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 2fe5017efa80f72cdcf03f893c40d2acb7888bda0fe51eda1b322965334f7e01
================================================================================

﻿All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some strange new
wares for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some new items
today that should liven up the hunt.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some new hunting
necessities for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some new, rare
insects for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some unusual wares
in stock today. So long! May your pouch strings
never be tight. Fine work, Hunter! Now we can trade with
the  Moga Bee Yard . Of course, the merchant there also reaps
the benefits. We will keep him stocked
with all the goods he desires. Win-win! I am sure that if he were here right now,
he would say, "Zenny thanks!" Fine work, Hunter! Now the Open-air Kitchen
will always be stocked with the best
dairy delights.  The Street Cook said to tell you,
"Zenny thanks!" Fine work, Hunter! I hear Sunsnug Isle
has expanded.  The locals wanted to say, "Zenny thanks
for the new op-purr-tunities!"  On that note, "purr-haps" you should
pay them a visit.  Fine work, Hunter! Now the Open-air Kitchen
will always be stocked with the freshest
of fishes. The Street Cook said to tell you,
"Zenny thanks!" Fine work, Hunter! Now we can trade with
the  Dundorma Market . The merchant there was quite pleased. He sent a brief note to say,
"Zenny thanks!"  Fine work, Hunter! Now the Street Cook
can help you cook meat at the
Open-air Kitchen.  He said to tell you, "Zenny thanks!"  Fine work, Hunter! I hear Sunsnug Isle
has expanded.  The locals sent you a message: "Meow'd
you like to come by and see the new
risotto?"  Or was it "resort"? I am so terrible
with messages. You had better visit the
isle yourself and see. dmy All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some special new
wares for you today.  All right, let us make with the
transactions! I have some special new
wares for you today.  Fine work, Hunter! I hear Sunsnug Isle
has expanded.  The locals wanted to say, "Zenny thanks
for the new op-purr-tunities!"  On that note, "purr-haps" you should
pay Sunsnug Isle a visit.  Fine work, Hunter! The folks at the
Wyceum were able to advance
to the next stage of their research.  The Professor wanted to tell you,
"Zenny thanks in the name of science!"
Whee hee!  Magnificent! Simply splendid! No matter how many times I visit this
town, I can never get over the sheer
magnitude of it! Even from the Arluq's great vantage,
it seemed marvelously vast.  The area around Dundorma is rich
in resources, so naturally the town is
well known amongst us merchants.  And monsters? Pah! Dangers be discounted.
When an opportunity like this arises,
no real merchant could ever be cowed. Hunter, certainly you have heard the
Master of Defense will be arriving in
Dundorma very soon.  As the gossip goes, he used to be quite
the hunter, and knows all the ins and outs
of town defense. Apparently, his talents are in demand all
around the world. Well done, Hunter. Word has it you have
collected all the materials needed to
build the Wyceum. A shame about the latest ruckus.
Have you heard? The Master of Defense
is in danger.  Apparently, some sort of nasty monster
has turned up in the Dunes.
The townsfolk are all worried sick.  The monster making its malevolent way
toward the Master of Defense's Sandskiff
is called a Monoblos.  And Hunter, let me tell you: This hunt
will be no saunter down the sands of
Sunsnug Isle -- no sir! Taking down a Monoblos is a
legendary task for a legendary hunter!
Throw everything you've got at it! What IS it with this weather?
It really ought to have cleared by now...
What do you make of it? Whee hee! Splendid work hunting that
pesky Monoblos! Few can lay claim
to THAT kind of achievement! The town has brightened up considerably
now that the Master of Defense is safe.
Maybe it's my turn to borrow your help... Whee hee! Splendid work hunting that
pesky Monoblos! Few can lay claim
to THAT kind of achievement! Zenny thanks for bringing the Master of
Defense home safe and sound.  Those blasted clouds still hang over
us even though the Kushala Daora has
moved on... What do you suppose it means? The Master of Defense tells me you're
looking for a fuel with enough zip to
power the new defensive weapon. Well, am I the Wycoon or am I the Wycoon?
Let me see if I can pull some strings
and locate what you need. Oh, Hunter. I had a word with the
Master of Defense.  My colleagues and I believe that
Rathian materials are best suited
to that newfangled weapon you're building. The Master of Defense seemed convinced.
I hope I was able to help out.  The Master of Defense and I had a looong
talk about what's going on, and he
said to me: "Most merchants have a material eye,
but you, sir, have an eye for materials."
Whee hee!  What a flatterer! If he's not careful,
he might just get on my good side! Leave the search for a Rathian
to yours truly.  Not even the Queen of the Land can escape
my web of mercantile mercenaries. You just carry on with your usual
hunting work and let the pros handle it.  What's a monster like the Seregios
doing all the way out here?  They're supposed to live leagues away,
and rarely outside the pack.
The Caravaneer told me as much. Fine work, Hunter.
And I really mean that. But... Well, you look like you know what
I'm about to say. The elder dragon warnings remain in
effect. The crux of the town's problems
is still out there, somewhere.  That lady Gunner friend of yours
went off to capture the Rathian
we found.  Don't you trouble yourself.
Rest now; she'll be back before you
know it.  I suppose you've heard that the lady
Gunner managed to capture the Rathian. I can tell the Master of Defense is
relieved -- and honestly? So am I!
Whee hee!  If it's not one thing, it's another...
No rest for this town, it seems. But I suppose such grim observations
do no one any good.  Let's you and I just focus on clearing
one hurdle at a time, shall we?  You know, I was wondering why things had
gotten so quiet, and then I realized the
young Ace had gone off on field work. For all his yakking, I find the town a
duller place without him. Have you any
idea when he'll be back?  Frenzied monsters... Pah. We of the
Arluq rode out worse than this when we
took on Shagaru Magala.  No big deal, right? And that's
coming from a merchant.  The Aces' young yakker has returned.
I must say, the town's decibel levels
suit me much better now. Did you hear? A letter from the
Ace Lancer has arrived for the
Master of Defense. You won't need any cheap tricks against
Deviljho. Just hit it as hard
as you can! But that's your specialty, now, isn't it?
You never were the type to pull
your punches. Whee hee! Whatever the Ace Lancer thinks he's onto,
it leaves me feeling less than peachy...  What do you make of all this?
Could it be as horrible as it sounds? How many times now have I sent you off?
How many times have I wished you luck?  Pah. You don't need me to tell you what
you're capable of.  Go out there and do your thing. The Street
Cook and I will be here talking you up,
as we are wont to do. Whee hee!  Maybe the worst the Frenzy could throw
at us was the Apex monsters. To which I say: big deal. Nature may be
nasty, but people like you and me are full
of just as many surprises. Whee hee! Look up at that sky, Hunter.
Lock this vista away where you can
always remember it. When times are tough, remember that no
blues can hold a candle to THIS blue.  Time to show that brute what our
weapon can do! That Kushala Daora can head right
back to wherever it came from!  I'd almost forgotten what clear
skies look like.  You and the Ace Hunters did a
great thing out there. All I can say is
"Zenny thanks!" Whee hee! I have always been a free agent.
Wherever the business is, that is where
I go.  But for all the caravans I have
traveled with, few have given me a feeling
like this: a real sense of community.  While you and the Ace Hunters run
yourselves ragged defending the town,
I have been wheeling and dealing. And let me tell you, a crisis can be
good for the economy! Whee hee! I could
retire on an income like this! Hunter, have you ever heard of a
Cathangeafish, or Cathangeafish Fry? To merchants like myself, they are as
precious as cold, hard zenny. Slip me either one of them when you
multiply your Items, and I assure you the
gesture will not go unnoticed.  The same still goes for a Cathangea or
a Cathangea Seed, of course. Hunter, have you figured out where you
can reel in Cathangeafish? Look carefully at the river running
through town. The lavender silhouettes
are Cathangeafish. Trading materials ensures both hunters
and merchants get the items they prize
the most. Happy faces for everyone! Now aren't you glad you fulfilled all
my requests? Whee hee!  Sometimes, when you multiply Items,
you will receive items you didn't ask
for along with the rest.  These, ahem, "bonuses" vary from market
to market, but you must take the good
with the bad. Such is life. Whee hee! While you're out of town, I busy myself
with wheeling and dealing -- and making
a keeling! ...Sorry, merchant humor.  If my butt cushion seems a little fluffier
than usual, it's because I'm sitting on
a small fortune. Whee hee! The lady Gunner had lots of questions
about you. Would you like to know what
I told her?  I would too, if I were you. Whee hee! That young Ace is an odd one. He has a better eye for items than I
do at times. But he would make a terrible merchant --
TERRIBLE. Absolutely no stallside
manner whatsoever. Whee hee! Heading off to hunt? Allow me to
multiply those items of yours while
you are gone, guaranteed. Whee hee!  Off to hunt with friends?
Remember that multiplication makes a
fine pre-hunting addition. Whee hee! Yes, yes, come closer. ...Closer! I like that look in your eye.
No doubts, all cheer. You always did
radiate confidence.  And that confidence has taken you far,
hasn't it? I have yet to see a crisis
that can stop you for long.  This won't be any different. You go out
there and you give it your all. I know that together, you and the Aces
will knock that Kushala Daora silly
and make the town right as rain. It takes a clear mind like yours to
bring back clear skies. You've got this
old Wycoon in your corner!  Whee hee! Fine work, Hunter!
At long, long, LONG last, some weather
to be happy about.  I can't remember the last time I was so
happy to look up and see blue. And I have
you to thank for that, don't I? Whee hee! Hats off, I say!  Or perhaps what I ought to say is,
"Zenny thanks!" My appreciation is
nothing else if not predictable. Hee! Whee hee! Congratulations! I hear you
completed The Master's Test!  You've done quite a bit for me and the
Caravan -- and the world, at that -- since
we first met back in Val Habar. When you weren't unclogging my trade
routes, you were bringing home strange
and wondrous goods. We swam together, flew together, saved
towns together...  Right before my eyes, I've seen you flex
your eyebrows, and deliver eggs, and
strip down to your skivvies.  I've had grander adventures with you
than the usual making-with-the-
transactions most merchants settle for.  Anyway, hats off, I say!  Or perhaps what I ought to say is,
"Zenny thanks!" And this time, they're
most certainly the zenniest. Hee! Hunter? ...A moment, if you will. Have you any interest in multiplying your
items at a  new market  ? The one I have in mind is called the
 Moga Bee Yard . It is a vibrant establishment where one
can obtain honey and insects. If you can furnish a few things, I will be
able to secure a deal with this market
so I can multiply Items there.  Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the sweet details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Splendid timing!  The Street Cook asked me if I could
help him  get his hands on higher
quality milk  . However, I need to gather just a few small
things before I can make his dairy dreams
come true. Think you can help out? Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the delicious details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Headwhiskress at Sunsnug Isle just
contacted me about   expanding the island  . A larger Sunsnug Isle means you can
hire more Palicoes -- up to 30! Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the hairy details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Splendid timing!  The Street Cook asked me if I could
help him  get his hands on higher
quality fish  . However, I need to gather just a few small
things before I can make his fishy dreams
come true. This is where you come in.  Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the details.
I am counting on you! Hunter? ...A moment, if you will. Have you any interest in multiplying your
items at a  new market  ? The one I have in mind is called
 Dundorma Market . They satisfy a hunter's core needs with a
wide supply of useful tools.  If you can furnish a few things, I will be
able to secure a deal with this market
so I can multiply Items there.  Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Splendid timing!
The Street Cook asked me a favor.  He wants to be able to join you when you
cook meat at the Street Kitchen. If you gather a few small things for me,
I can make him a   special little
spit of his very own . Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the juicy details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Headwhiskress at Sunsnug Isle just
contacted me about   further expanding
the island  . An even larger Sunsnug Isle means you
can hire more Palicoes -- up to 40! Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the hairy details.
I am counting on you! Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Headwhiskress at Sunsnug Isle just
contacted me about   further expanding
the island  . An even larger Sunsnug Isle means you
can hire more Palicoes -- up to 50! Check the Villager Requests if you want
to know all of the hairy details.
I am counting on you! Hunter? ...A moment, if you will. Have you any interest in multiplying your
  Nectar   for your Kinsects at
Dundorma Market?  I spoke with a local merchant with whom
I've grown acquainted, and all the
preliminary negotiations went smoothly.  Unfortunately, some pesky monsters have
settled themselves right in the way of
our trade route. I filed a Quest with the Guild called
" Snowbound Showdown  ."  If you want more Nectar, those monsters
need to get ejectored. Whee hee!  Fine work, Hunter! Now I can sell   Nectars !
Oh, and you can get them
from Dundorma Market too.  If you can't trade with
Dundorma Market yet,
check the Villager Requests! By the way, the Dundorma merchant
was quite pleased with his recent acquisition. He sent a brief note to say,
"Zenny thanks!" Whee hee!  You've been making great strides lately.
Oh, yes, I've been watching. Whee hee! And so I thought I might step up my
own game and secure some new wares for
when you "Trade Materials."  My colleagues were more than amenable,
but monsters have blocked our trade route. If it's not too much trouble, I filed a
Quest with the Guild called
" Thunder and Stone ."  If you  want to trade for new
materials , just lend us a hand!  Fine work, Hunter! Now you will have
access to new wares when you "Trade
Materials."  My colleagues are pleased with the
arrangement as well. They get what they
want, you get what you want... Happy faces all around! Whee hee!
Zenny thanks, zenny thanks. Ah! Hunter. Your timing is impeccable.  The Professor at the Wyceum just
contacted me about some  research
materials   he requires. With said materials, he will be able to
increase the Wystones' effects! Check the Villager Requests to see
all of the details. I am counting on you!  Come, Hunter! Behold the eye-watering
spectacle that is the NEW Wyporium! Thanks to you, I have more carts with
which to conduct the wheeling and the
dealing. That means   more transactions ! ...Plus, I get this fluffy butt cushion.
Happy faces all around! Whee hee!  Come, Hunter! Behold the jam-packed
public menace that is the NEW Wyporium! Thanks to you, I have more carts with
which to conduct the wheeling and the
dealing. That means   more transactions ! ...Plus, I get this fancy tiled roof.
Happy faces all around! Whee hee! Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Pokke Farm's   Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! Make
with the happy faces!  Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Kokoto Farm's  Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! You may
start the dancing in the streets! Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Moga Bee Yard's  Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! Let
us celebrate good times -- come on! Wait until you hear this, Hunter!
  Dundorma Market's  Circulation
has increased! Now I can acquire many more wares with a
single transaction. Lucky you! Lucky me!
Lucky all of us! Whee hee!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC075 (Little Miss Forge in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC075 (Little Miss Forge in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 10291 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:51:48
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: cc45d861f5756e42bb7e93cc14aec516c666fda69e5b9ce7c187f4e7983ed8dd
================================================================================

﻿Whoa! Can you BELIEVE this, sir?
Talk about your big honking towns. I don't think I've ever SEEN so many
people in one place! I went around trying to take in all
the scenery...wowzers!
This place is incredible.  Apparently we're not allowed up that big
flight of steps. Not without permission. Believe me, sir. I found out the
hard way...  So what do you think the Master
of Defense is like, sir?  I wonder if he's anything like the
Caravaneer...or the Ace Commander... Gosh, what if he's like Pop?  The Master of Defense will arrive soon!
Yaaay! Except a legendary monster seems
have turned up. Boo!  Go show that legendary monster who's
boss, sir. I know you can do it! You go, sir! Nice job out there!  The Master of Defense has finally made
it to town. I'm so excited. Eep! So, like... The Master of Defense is
going to design some kind of defensive
weapon for the town, right? Well, I intend to help. I've made up
my mind, sir! Even if it means I get in
their way, I'm helping!  Also, I'm working with the lady at the
Armory to develop a  new Hammer  . She and I are gonna do great work.
I can feel it already! Whew... All these sudden life goals have
got me all worked up.  It started to rain while you were out
hunting, sir. A big, whooshy mass of
clouds came out of nowhere.  I wonder if the Kushala Daora
brought them... Guess what, sir!
I helped out with the design!  I said to myself, "Self, this town needs
protecting, and you're the one to do it."
So I did. I'm a deep thinker!  It sounds like the Research Assistant
hasn't shown up yet. The Professor
was all tied up in knots.  Did the assistant get lost? Maybe
the assistant needs assistance... The fuel for the defensive weapon!
The sandskiffs!
The townsfolk's morale!  Everything is a big mess, sir. Boohoo!
I'm not crying. "Boohoo" is my
determined noise. Honest. You did it, sir! The townsfolk are back
to their usually cheery selves. All right, then. Elder dragon, schmelder
dragon -- we're gonna fix this town up
so that NOTHING can get in! Oh no! The town is in trouble!  Seregios have sprung up all over
the place! ...No, everything will be okay.
We'll all work together to set things
right. And besides: We've got you, sir! The Lancer and Cadet? They went out to
do some field work, sir. The Ace Commander had this
really serious, almost scary,
look on his face...  I promised the Lancer and Cadet that I
would finish the Demolisher before
they get back.  Let me tell ya, sir: I've got my work
cut out for me! But I won't let
them down.  Just great. Right when we finish the
defensive weapon, frenzied monsters
decide to make a comeback. We've got to hurry. I'VE got to hurry!  I hope the Lancer is okay. He should be
back from that field work by now...
I wish he'd just come home. Hi there, sir. The Master of Defense's
bird brought him a letter. How did it know where he was?
Clearly we're dealing with one smart bird.  Everyone in the Caravan says I should
hightail it if things get messy
around here.  But I won't do it, sir. Nuh-uh. No way.
NEVER! I'm sticking with the townsfolk! Oh no! The town is in trouble!
Is this it?!
Are we DOOMED?! ...No, everything will be okay. We'll all work together to set things
right. And besides: We've got the
Ace Hunters.  ...A-and, more importantly, we've got
you, sir! Everyone in the Caravan wants me to run.
Women and children first, they say.
Well, no stinking way, sir!  I don't have to be a man to be the last
man standing! Where does courage come from, sir?
Maybe it finds you the moment you
decide to stop running.  Brace yourself, sir!  I'm gonna decorate you so good, the
Kushala Daora will look at you and
say, "Forget this! I'm going home!"  The Master of Defense told me that the
fastest way to get anywhere is to take
it one step at a time.  There's no such thing as a shortcut on
the straight and narrow. I got all worked up trying to help you
twice as much as usual, sir, but in the
end, I could only do what I could do.  Where does resolve come
from, sir?  Maybe it finds you the moment you
realize there's still hope. Boy, do I love good weather, sir.
Especially THIS good weather! So how'd I do? Was I helpful?
...Gosh! Thanks, sir. The Master of Defense went away...
But I'm sure we'll see him again.
Boohoo!  I guess "boohoo" can be my sad noise
just this once...  If we make it back to Harth, I'm
going to tell Pop about everything
we accomplished with the townsfolk. I want him to know he made the right
choice leaving me with the Caravan.  Hiya, sir! Anything I can help you out
with today?
Just say the word. I aim to please!  What do you think they study at the
Wyceum, sir?  Whatever it is, I bet it's totally super
useful for a hunter like you!  Sir, I still can't get over how big
Dundorma is.  I've never seen so many people in
one place.  When I went around to do introductions,
everyone called me "chipper"... I had to
explain that I'm more of a decorator.  *Sigh* This dang mechanism won't do
what it's told. If Teach was trying to challenge me,
it's working. I'm so close, but the
final details are driving me up the wall.  Is there any part of your job that drives
you crazy? I guess we'll both have to
stick it out, huh, sir? Check it out, sir! These are some new
equipment designs I'm working on. Do you like it with the stripes or with
the notches? Ugh, I'm so torn!  Maybe I'll ask the Guildmarm for
her opinion. You know, sir, I was hoping to ask the
Ace Commander if I could have a closer
look at his equipment.  But when I went up to him, he gave me
this dead serious look and said, "I didn't
know they made them this small." ...What does that mean? Should I be
insulted? Terrified? I never got to ask
my question.  I sure miss the Master of Defense.
But I'm sure I'll see him again... I'm just gonna have to believe that with
all my heart, I guess. I went to see the Ace Commander again
to see if I could have a closer look at
his equipment.  He gave me that look again, and this time
he said, "Did you grow an inch, or are
you just standing on your tiptoes?"  ...And then he let me check out his gear!
It pays to be tenacious.  I worked up the courage to ask the Lancer
for a look at this equipment. Boy, was
I shaking in my boots! I got a chance to study the lady gunner's
equipment. She was super nice about it.
And her gear? *gasp* To die for, sir. I dropped by the Assembly the other
day. Do you know the Diva there?  She has such a beautiful voice! When I
sing, it sounds like Jaggi farts...  Sir! I'm still working on designs for
some new equipment. I gave this one a sort of eerie, twisted
vine pattern based on
the Guildmarm's advice.  Pretty kinky, huh? ...Wait, that's not
the right word.  Sir! I'm still working on some
new equipment designs. I gave this one a pastel flower pattern
based on the Guildmarm's advice.  Because who doesn't want to look
like they jumped out of a fairy tale?  Sir! I'm still working on some
new equipment designs. I took the Guildmarm's advice and made
this one so bright you can't even
really look at it head on. In fact -- ow! I can't even tell -- agh!
How it turned out -- ooh, my eyes! Every now and then a Felyne washes
up in the river. I guess they fall
sometimes when they're chasing fish.  But if you like something that much,
maybe it's worth taking a plunge every
so often! The Caravaneer's bird loves when you
scratch the back of its head.  It does this squinty thing with its eyes
that is SO adorable, sir. Seriously. If you're going out hunting with friends,
I recommend the Wide-Range skill, sir!  Every chug of a restorative you take
will heal everyone in the area!  Sir, you're always protecting us...
I know I've got a long way to go, but I
wish I could do more. The Master of Defense says the fastest
way to get anywhere is to take one step
at a time... And I know it's true. I mean, look how
far you've come by finishing one
Quest at a time!  But still... Let me know if I can do
anything for you, okay? Even the tiniest
thing to help the town. At the very least, I'm gonna deck you out
in enough decorations to blind a
Troverian twice over!  We did it, sir! Can you believe it?
Sunshine! Never underestimate the power of
humans when they work together
and put their mind to something, huh? We cry and curse our bad luck, but dang
if we don't get the job done. It was different with Pop and the diggers.
When they ran into trouble, they would
wait it out.  "Weather the storm," Pop would say.
"Even the angriest Deviljho's gotta sleep
sometime." He's an adage machine. But I like the human way, too.
There's something fun about throwing
yourself headlong at a problem. I'll have to tell everyone all about it
next time I stop back at my village.  And then we can all make a Hammer...
It'll be great!  Sir, I was wondering if I could ask you
a teensy-weensy little favor. For a few days now, I've been   working on
a new Hammer  with the Armory Aide.  You know about it, right? You were nice
enough to help out, after all.  Anyway, I made a prototype of the weapon
before coming to Dundorma. It's called
the "Arluq."  To complete it, I need materials from
the   Black Gravios . That's where the favor comes in.
I put in a request with the Guildmarm
called   " Advanced: Whale of a Hammer ."  Please do it for me! If you manage to
pull it off, I'll work extra hard to
complete the hammer! It'll be just like the Arluq:
flying into danger, straight and true!
No limits! I promise you'll get lots of use out
of it. I want to look out for you, sir!
Please say yes!  Sir! Oh, thank you, thank you!  Since you finished "Advanced: Whale of
a Hammer," I managed to  
finish making the Hammer ! Please take it. It's all yours, and I
promise it's one of a kind. I put my blood, sweat, and tears into it.
And more importantly, my heart! Go out there and stay sharp!
How would the Guildmarm put it? Oh yeah.
You're our shining ray of hope! Congrats, sir! I can't believe you
pulled off The Master's Test.  I tell ya, that Quest was the stuff
of legends. And a legend is what you
have become! Hip hip, hooray!
Hip hip...hooray!  Hip hip-- *sniff* Boohoo!
I'm not crying. "Boohoo" is my
impressed noise.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC080 (Ace Commander in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC080 (Ace Commander in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 23168 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:52:22
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 8b92cb7f0ea41079c7bf8a26154f32778a6e76383317edbdd2b3bd21f7395fa9
================================================================================

﻿First, I need you to speak with the
Cadet. I have placed him in charge of
the Battlequarters. If you find his explanation to be
inadequate, you may lodge a complaint
with me.  You would not be the first... Did you speak with the Cadet about what
he needs? Good. Your help in hunting the
Daimyo Hermitaur will be appreciated.  ...Incidentally, did he explain his
objectives to you properly? I sometimes
wonder about his communication skills...  I have looked after him since he first
became a hunter... Which means I know better than anyone
what a headache he can be when he gets
worked up. Which is nearly always. The Cadet was pleased to hear you would
be coming to town -- as were the Lancer
and Gunner, of course.  ...Yes? Was there something else
you needed?  My mentor will soon return to Dundorma. I hope he remains well. Our reunion
is long overdue...  I cannot even remember the last time
we spoke.  Next, I would like you to help bolster
the Dragonseer.  The Gunner has the details.
Please consult with her.  Did you consult with the Gunner?
Good.  Your Guild associate should have the
Quest to hunt an Emerald Congalala
on file. Your help is appreciated.  The Gunner has a good eye and keen
senses. Her "hunches" have saved me more
than once.  Im grateful to have trained together
with her, and to have her on my team. Whenever he sees the Dragonseer, that
fool of a Cadet insists upon waving
at it.  We could be waiting in absolute silence
to ambush a monster, and he'd still leap
out and dash after that blasted ship.  *Sigh* Mentoring can be tiring work...  I would next like your help preparing for
the Wyceum's construction.  The Ace Lancer has the details.
Please consult with him.  Did you consult with the Lancer?
Good.  The Guild considers the construction
of the Wyceum a pressing
matter. Your help is appreciated. There are few men I respect more than
the Lancer. In addition to his achievements as a
hunter, he also happens to be an
accomplished biologist. Many young hunters look up to him.
I was shocked he agreed to help with
our investigation of the Gore Magala. True, the orders came from the Guild,
but his arrival still filled me with
immense pride and gratitude. I will never forget the joy of
that moment. I just received word from my mentor.
He will arrive in Dundorma soon. How long has it been? I hope he returns
in good health...and that I avoid
presenting myself disgracefully.  We still need your help preparing for
the Wyceum's construction.  We need a Cephadrome and
Nerscylla hunted in succession.
Do be on your guard out there. It will take a concerted effort to
rescue my mentor. I'm counting on you
to hunt that Monoblos! The Gunner and Cadet will fight their
way to his side. The Lancer and
I will remain here to defend the town.  Be sure to speak with the Gunner;
teamwork will be vital! It will take a concerted effort to
rescue my mentor. I'm counting on you
to hunt that Monoblos! The Gunner and Cadet will fight their
way to his side. The Lancer and
I will remain here to defend the town!  The Monoblos is a vicious
opponent that poses a grave danger
to the sandskiffs. You must hunt it. Save the sandskiffs,
and save my mentor.  He is...too dear a fellow for the
world to lose.  These skies...  These dark clouds...  *Sigh* What if it happens again?  The Master of Defense has returned
safely! Oh, this IS marvelous. Through your diligent efforts, I have
been reunited with my mentor once again.
From the bottom of my heart, I thank you.  If I might trouble you with another task:
there is a world-weary man who needs
your help. He has taken refuge in the
 Assembly  . The Master of Defense has returned
safely! Oh, this IS marvelous. Through your diligent efforts, I have
been reunited with my mentor once again.
From the bottom of my heart, I thank you.  My mentor travels to all manner of
towns and villages, great and small,
to take command of their defenses.  He strives to be of no place and all
places, and as such he often finds
himself on the road.  It has been that way since his hunting
days...  He deserves the world's respect.
He certainly has mine. A world-weary gentleman came forward
with a pressing matter that requires
your attention. I believe it was to either hunt a
Khezu, or to deliver a Powderstone...
Your choice.  It was that very Kushala Daora... ...That wound...  ......  Ah. Your safe return pleases me.
Have you had a chance to lend the
Street Cook your ear?  He needed a Pink Rathian hunted,
I believe. Blasted Rathians...
I can't stand the thought of them.  The Professor at the Wyceum was
most distressed that his assistant has
yet to reach town. I certainly hope the poor girl was not
beset by monsters along the road.  ......  Oh... Hunter. What? Yes, of course
I'm all right. Why?  ......  Oh... Hunter. The Professor at the
Wyceum informed me of his
assistant's plight.  This is most dreadful.
Beset by a Seltas Queen!
We must rescue her at once! I am told the design has been completed
for the defensive weapon. Now my mentor says he needs a potent
fuel:  One that yields enough firepower to
cut through the Kushala Daora's
storms without dissipating. ......  Oh... Hunter. What? Yes, of course
I'm all right. Why?  ......  If you must go capture that Rathian,
promise you will be careful. One reckless move could cost you.
Dearly... Go on, then. Capture the Rathian.
I will be praying for your success. You're safe? I m-mean, you're safe!
I... I am most pleased. The Lord Scribe was looking for you.
He had something he wished to give you.  A Seregios...
I have never laid eyes on one myself.
Only pictures...  I doubt even the Lord Scribe has seen
one in the flesh. Most of the residents have taken
shelter indoors. Leave the town defenses
to us.  You have your own task ahead of you.
Be on guard out there. You're safe, you're safe!
Oh, the things I long to say... But you should speak with my
mentor first. I can save my long-winded
words of appreciation for later! Well done, Hunter. As always, your safe
return brings me gladness.  Now then. Since the sandskiffs are
again operational, delivery of the
materials we need can resume at once. By the way, Master Tool had a
favor to ask you. Drop by,
if you would.  Fine work hunting the Seregios.
You reminded me so much of... Er, nothing.
It's hardly worth mentioning.  While I do have some lingering doubts, at
least fortification of the town against
the elder dragon is once again underway.  However, both my mentor and the Lancer
strongly advise we remain vigilant.
And I am inclined to agree.  Something preys upon my mind...
But I find it too troublesome to put
into words, exactly. Do you know where the Gunner went?
I have been looking everywhere for her.  She must have gone on a tour with the
Dragonseer to assess their progress.  I shall have to clap her heartily on the
back when she returns. The Gunner was unnerved by the
Azure Rathalos she saw...  I suggest we take that seriously.
Do you mind looking into it?  If nothing else, prove our fears have
been misplaced. So, the Gunner has returned. Her work
aboard the Dragonseer appears to have
been more grueling than expected... I must remember to clap her heartily
on the back the next time we speak.  Why must those two be the ones to go? I already put them in danger once.
*Sigh* It should have been me that stayed
behind and fought. Commander or not, I should have followed
my heart, not succumbed to some perverse
sense of duty.  Go on, then. Hunt the Brute Tigrex.
I will be praying for your success. Ah, greetings.
...Can I help you? If you are looking for the Lancer
and Cadet, they are in the field. ...Did you need anything else?  Go on, then. I pray that your hunt to
complete the Demolisher will end
in nothing but success.  I hope those two return soon, and
unharmed. And the same goes for you.
...You be safe.  I will immediately be putting every able
technician in town on calibrating the
defensive weapon.  In the meantime, the Aces will drive off
any frenzied monsters that attempt
to come near. The weapon must be protected, so protect
it we shall! The Lancer is still out there...
somewhere...continuing that
study of his.  But I know him. And I believe in him.
He WILL return safely, and with
something to show for his efforts.  You're safe! That's wonderful!  We just received a note from the
Lancer. My mentor will tell you what
you need to know. Friend...
Please, return to us safely.  If you don't, I will...
I will be most displeased!  A frenzied Deviljho?! Egads!
We already have our hands full dealing
with the elder dragon!  Is there no way to stop all this
from happening again? Agh... There's something out there worse
than the frenzied Deviljho, and
STILL he refuses to return? Stay safe out there, my friend.
Stay...SAFE!  The Kushala Daora has tired
of keeping us waiting, it seems...  But this time I will be ready for
the beast. This time, *I* will be
HIS shield! No matter the cost! I will not...let it...happen again! An Apex Seregios... Y-you had better come back from
this hunt. Because if you don't...
If you DON'T...  I shall get extremely emotional!  I thank you from the bottom of
my heart.  I am truly lucky to have met you. From now on...  From now on, I must do the protecting.  Back from the hunt? Good, good. Did I mention? The other day I went and
hunted a Rathian on the
townsfolk's behalf. I feel...confident now. Able to face
the queen untroubled.  Oh, it's you.
...Sorry, I was just thinking to myself.  I have many thoughts and feelings
about the past, but I no longer
regret any of what has happened.  Ah, Hunter. The same as ever, I see.  The Aces have been busy with one
mission or another, but otherwise things
are much the same for us as well. ...Was there something you needed?  Ah, Hunter. It cheers me to see you in
favorable health.  You remind me so much of... No, no... Never mind. Some thoughts
are better left unspoken. Did you just return?
And you look as though you will be
heading out again just as quickly.  ...Which is fine. I was only making
an observation. Be careful out there. Greetings, Hunter. It has been a while.
The Aces fare well, rest assured. Each of us has been given new orders,
though not the same ones. I long for the day when the four of us
can hunt together again. Ah, Hunter. The same as ever, I see.
...Can I help you with anything? No? You are welcome to stay in Dundorma
a while longer. The townsfolk would be
overjoyed, I am sure.  Oh... Hunter. Will you and the Caravan be heading
for new pastures? You will be...
m-missed.  Wherever life does take you, do me a
favor, and look after them.
Keep them safe.  Welcome back. It pleases me to see
you home safe. Tell me... That weapon of yours --
have you always favored it?  I only ask because you seem...
Nothing, nothing. Pay me no mind.  Off for a group hunt?
Promise you will exercise caution.  Feel free to give your friends my
best, if you think such a gesture
would please them.  Well met, Commander!
I brought ya a little guest. One Kindred Hunter, at yer service! Many thanks, Lord Scribe.
My deepest thanks to you as well, Hunter. To get right down to the point, we need
your help   repairing and fortifying the
town of Dundorma . Dundorma itself was designed to
withstand constant monster attacks -- it
may well be the world's finest fortress. The town's observation station scouts for
elder dragons, while local experts continue
to research new defensive strategies. However, many of the town's fortifications
were heavily damaged during a recent
monster attack. And unfortunately, the timing could not
have been worse. Forecasters have
predicted   an elder dragon is on the way . Ordinarily, Dundorma could hold its
own against such a threat, but if the
dragon were to arrive today...  Well, you can see the state things
are in. The town would be wiped right off
the map. Circumstances are grave.  Before we can deal with repairs and
fortifications, we have a whole laundry
list of tiresome tasks to complete. Any one of them would burden an average
hunter -- which is why we are seeking
the best: you and your Caravan. Will you help me and the Aces   restore
Dundorma to its former glory  ? I can think of no one else I would
rather ask -- nor anyone else capable.
I humbly beseech you. Hoowee... I see what you mean.
The monsters did a real number on the
shops and facilities.  This looks like a job for the Capital C
all right.  Problem is, we need permission from the
high-and-mighties before we can set up
in the commons, right? Correct. I anticipated that, sir, and
have already received clearance for the
Caravan to enter. Attaboy! Always one step ahead.
In that case, let me gather the posse
and we can get started. Har!  All right, that oughta take care of
the preliminaries.  Mind taking a minute to run down your
to-do list? Of course, sir. In light of Dundorma's present
dilemma -- damage from the monster attacks
and the elder dragon's imminent arrival --  His Immenseness has elected to
summon an  authority on these matters  
back to town.  The man in question is a brilliant
defensive strategist and a fine commander
to boot. I can vouch for this, seeing as he was
 my mentor  -- the man who taught me
everything I know.  He was, at one time, a hunter himself.  However...circumstances led to his early
retirement, and he now travels around the
world as a defensive consultant. Dundorma remains his home, however,
and if we are lucky he will return
here very soon.  By the time he does, I should very much
like to complete  three objectives  . First, the  Battlequarters   need to be
repaired. I have put our very own Cadet
in charge.  Second, the   Dragonseer   needs
bolstering. Supervising this is the
Gunner -- an obvious choice. Lastly, the   Wyceum   needs to
be built. The Lancer has agreed to work with
The Professor and ensure preparations
for construction go smoothly.  Hoowee! Color me impressed! Sounds like
everybody's gonna be plenty busy.
Har har!  Hunter, I would like you to start with
the  Battlequarters   repairs. The Cadet over there will instruct you
as to what you need to do. Right then. What do ya say, Kindred
Hunter? Ready for a REAL adventure? I'm sure there are things ya've left
unfinished in other villages, but heck!  As long as we're in Dundorma, we
should focus on our duties here. I already told the rest of the crew
to prepare for an extended stay.
They'll be at yer service like always. Now skedaddle over to the Cadet there and
start gettin' yer hands dirty. You're the
one to get it done, har!  Back so soon? It pleases me to
see you safe.  Your efforts have advanced the
Battlequarters repairs considerably.
The Cadet had many kind things to say.  I believe he called you "groovios" and
said the sandskiffs were delivering
materials at a "gargwawsome" pace. I assure you I did not teach him that.
One must assume he was either giving a
compliment, or having some kind of fit. Regardless, I believe you are ready
for your next task: bolstering the
 Dragonseer  . The Gunner is in charge, so speak with
her when you are ready to know more.
Thank you again.  Ah...it's you. Good day.
It gives me tingles to see you safe. I'm told your efforts to improve the
Dragonseer ended in success. Splendid. Now it can p-penetr...infiltrate the
deepest reaches of the Dunes.  If you happen to hunt there, look up.
You might see the ship flying overhead. Now, moving on...
The   Wyceum   still needs
to get built.  The Ace Lancer knows the most about this,
so you'll need to speak to him. I believe he's in a meeting with
The Professor of the Wyceum as we speak.
You might yet catch the tail end of it. Good luck, and thank you again. Back safely, I see. Good, good... Thanks to you, construction on the
Wyceum should commence without
further delay. The Professor is pleased.  But I am afraid I have other, more  urgent
news  to share with you first. Certainly you recall the Dragonseer,
which was made better by your own hand.  Well, while scouting in the Dunes,
the Dragonseer made an alarming
discovery. A   formidable monster is approaching
the sandskiff conveying my mentor, the
Master of Defense, to Dundorma. It is a   Monoblos   -- a vicious
beast with a razor sharp horn.  It rarely makes itself known to
humankind -- but whenever it does, the
world suffers dearly.  I fear my mentor's sandskiff is in
grave danger. We must speed to his
rescue before it is too late! Alas, though... My duties remain here,
with the town. The elder dragon remains
an ever-present threat.  I must instead look to you. Please,
Hunter. Lend your strength to the Ace
Hunters in a  unified front ! I have already formulated a strategy
and ordered the Gunner and Cadet to
set out for my mentor's sandskiff. The Lancer and I will remain here and
continue guarding the town. We need you
to hunt that Monoblos!  Speak with the Gunner before you go.
Good communication will be vital to
this mission.  I wish you the very best of luck, and
pray for your success and safe return.  Ah, Hunter. I trust you are well? I heard the news. You will be heading
out to  capture a Rathian ...
Please, exercise caution. The Rathian is a...
There is always a chance you may... *Ahem* Did my mentor mention anything
about Rathians? Or a Kushala Daora,
perhaps? ...No? *Sigh*  There is a matter I must confide in you.  Few know the reason my mentor retired
from hunting. But that reason...is me.  He and I had departed to hunt a
Rathian -- it was just the two
of us. I can still remember it so clearly.
The moment the  Kushala Daora's  face
appeared from the black clouds above... I had only just recently joined the
Ace Hunters. I was cocky...
Foolish.  I had accomplished great things while
hunting solo, and had grown arrogant. With my mentor by my side, I had
convinced myself that we were both
invincible. And so I flew at the Kushala Daora,
ready to strike it down, armed with
nothing but pride and stupidity.  The elder dragon would have none
of it. Before it could rend me
asunder, my mentor leapt at it. And while defending me, he was
gravely wounded. I robbed the world
of a great hunter that day.  And now, whenever I hear the Rathian's
name, my heart fills with bitterness.  Why did my mentor leap in to save
me like that? Why did he end his
illustrious career to save mine? The answer eludes me to this day. I suppose I shall die wondering.
*Sigh* If you must capture a Rathian,
promise me -- SWEAR to me that you
will be careful.  If she got you, too, I might well drown
in my own tears and misery. Ah, Hunter. Faring well, I hope?
I cannot complain. ...Well, I suppose that is not
ENTIRELY true. I am burdened by one
small grievance... Perhaps I should not trouble you
with this, but the Gunner believes she
has sighted a   strange monster --  an  Azure Rathalos  , it seems.
She claims it was behaving oddly. Of course, it shows no signs of
attacking Dundorma... Perhaps it
poses no threat at all. Still... Oh, bother. I'll just come out and
ask it. Would you  check on the monster  
and give me your own assessment? I will set things up with the Guildmarm.
Sorry to bother you so soon after your
return, but I do appreciate the help. The elder dragon has arrived!
The   Kushala Daora  is upon us!  Sir! It's the same one!
The Kushala Daora that...that...  Yes, it is. And it will win no points for manners
from me, showing up before we can finish
calibrating the defensive weapon!  Now, let us all remain calm.  Our first priority should be evacuating
the townsfolk. After that, we can continue
fine-tuning the Battlequarters weapon. I want the Aces to defend the townsfolk
and oversee the evacuation until the
weapon is ready. Once it is, Dundorma will immediately go on
the offense.  However...  His Immenseness has given direct
instructions to the Capital C's hunter to
 hunt the Seregios . Unfortunately, we need every last woman
and man if our attack on the elder dragon
is to have any chance of success. Then we will hold the town. I swear we
will hold it until the hunter's return.
On my life, I swear it!  Yes, yes, very good. So be it.  Let us endeavor then to finish calibrating
the defensive weapon by the time the
hunter here returns.  Once you are back, our offensive begins
in earnest.  The Kushala Daora
must, MUST be driven away. ......  Sir...  I know, m'boy.  ...I know.  Let's get to it, then.
Alone, we are stones, but together we
shall a formable wall make.  Good luck to you, Kindred Hunter.
I know you will prevail.  Dundorma eagerly awaits your
safe return. I think I may have found my answer... Some inkling of why my mentor saved
me that day.  Thank you, friend. For the clarity...
Again I am in your debt.  Hunter! My friend!
I have been waiting for you. Behold! A   letter from my mentor  that
arrived not long ago! As I understand it, he has settled into
his new post and taken command of local
defenses there. The letter came with instructions that
I will read to you. If I may...
*Ahem* "How are you, Hunter? I am well -- as
unchanging as the weather.  "Word of your exploits in Dundorma
continues to reach every corner of the
world -- even here. "I have a   challenge  for you, if you
are interested. I think you will find
the Quest rather tricky. "I have asked my dear pupil to file it
with your Guild associate. Speak with
her when you have the opportunity. "I still recall with great emotion our
trials in Dundorma. What magic,
to see your caravan and the Aces unite.  "And that moment the sky cleared...
If there are words for it, I would rather
selfishly keep them within my heart.  "What I will say is that my umbrella
is enjoying early retirement.  "Hunter, please consider accepting my
challenge at your leisure.  "To you and to my dear pupil, I leave
this request... "No matter what lies ahead, never give
up the hunter's path.  "To hunt is to protect, and I can think
of no nobler cause. Warm regards."  ......  I filed the challenge he speaks of with
the Guildmarm as an   Urgent Quest  :
  " Advanced: The Master's Test ."  Though I have no doubt you will dance
through it like any other.  You are, after all, a shining ray of hope
in all our lives. Hunter, my deepest thanks for rising to
my mentor's challenge.  I shall enjoy informing him of this
great accomplishment. I can already picture his gentle,
knowing smile, for surely he expected you
to succeed. That is why he entrusted me with this,
a trophy I was instructed to give you:
  The Master's Parasol  . This, too, belongs to you now:
the  Hero Talisman . This talisman contains my mentor's
greatest wish: that we, as hunters,
always protect those in need.  Take it. It's yours.  As for me, I can only hope that I can
one day become half the man my
mentor is. But I believe now, more than ever, that
only the hunter's path can lead me to
such greatness. So, hunt I shall.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC081 (Ace Lancer in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC081 (Ace Lancer in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 21214 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:52:38
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 2d7b5ab183c10258d4292b574b96a8e27e36c5825ff16d6b497fcb935109fdc8
================================================================================

﻿Good day. We meet again, it seems.
Have you spoken with our commander yet?  I shall greatly enjoy working with
you again. I know we can rely on you.  The Master of Defense and I cut our
hunting teeth around the same time. He's a man who accomplishes what needs
accomplishing and moves forward one
assured step at a time.  I hear little about that has changed,
even after he retired from hunting. Either way, I cannot wait to see
him again. It has been far, far
too long.  Did you see the Wyverian scholar by
the entrance to town? He's an authority on Frenzy research.
We have plans to build a research center,
the Wyceum, here in town, you see.  Seeing as science is a subject of
interest to me, I am quite eager to
help see the task complete. Good day. I hear you helped resolve the
Battlequarters repair issues. The Cadet was practically doing backflips.
He can be rather excitable when things
go well.  Now that he's well on his way, your task
should be bolstering the Dragonseer.
Speak to the Ace Gunner to find out more. The Wyceum construction I am
handling presents some tricky problems.  The very nature of the place calls for
materials that can withstand various
chemical spills and medicinal mishaps.  We are nearly done making our selections;
once we have, I may call on you for help. The Master of Defense and I cut our
hunting teeth around the same time. He's a man who accomplishes what needs
accomplishing and moves forward one
assured step at a time.  I hear little about that has changed,
even after he retired from hunting. Either way, I cannot wait to see
him again. It has been far, far
too long.  Good day. It sounds as though the
Dragonseer improvements have been
progressing smoothly. As for the Wyceum, we have
finally managed to narrow down the
materials we need.  You should speak to our commander before
we begin, however. We will need two types of materials to
build the Wyceum.  The two Quests on which you will find
them are "Facility Facilitation" and
"Hunt-a-thon: Nerscylla."  You can complete them in whatever
order works best for you. I trust
your judgment.  The Wyceum specializes in the
research of monster anomalies like
the Frenzy.  As such, it should benefit not only
the town, but hunters like you and
me as well.  We will need two types of materials to
build the Wyceum.  The two Quests on which you will find
them are "Facility Facilitation" and
"Hunt-a-thon: Nerscylla."  You can complete them in whatever
order works best for you. I trust
your judgment.  I expect the Master of Defense will
arrive by the time you finish collecting
the Wyceum materials.  He will take charge of the
town's defenses. I must say, I look forward to seeing
my old friend. I hope time has treated
him well. Thanks to you, we have all the materials
we need to complete the Wyceum.  We will get started immediately.
I hope you are pleased with the results. However, a more urgent matter has
come up. Have you caught up with our
commander yet? Thanks to you, we obtained the materials
we need to complete the Wyceum.  However, the facility does little good
without staff. We shall just have to wait
until the Research Assistant arrives.  The Monoblos is an extremely
powerful mark that many in our profession
aspire to. Many have tried to hunt it, and most have
failed. The lucky ones made it home with
their skulls still facing forward... Naturally, the whole town will be
watching to see how you fare.
Watch yourself out there. Our commander is the linchpin of
Dundorma's defense. He cannot
simply up and leave at will. Still, even a man as dutiful as that
must have times when he wants to drop it
all and charge into the fray. I can understand that. On another note,
though, these dark clouds...  They do not sit right with me.
I shall have to speak with our commander
about them later. Ah, good day, Hunter.
Fine work hunting that Monoblos.  Thanks to you, my old friend the Master of
Defense made it here safe and sound. But we have too much ahead of us to
celebrate just yet. The elder dragon is still out there --
the Kushala Daora with the scar
across its face. This weather should be taken as a warning.
The storm WILL come. I spoke with my old friend at great length.
We traded stories of the past and talked
of the task before us. He has not changed a bit -- and I mean
that in only the best ways.  Our respective walks in life have changed
since we first started out as hunters,
but I would not have it any other way. Good day. Did you see the Wyceum?
At last, it is finished.  Unfortunately, though, the arrival of
the assistant who will be working there
has been delayed by a Seltas Queen. The Professor wanted to ask you
specifically to hunt the creature.
Would you mind hearing him out?  Have you heard? Designs for the defensive
weapon are complete. The Master of
Defense was bleary-eyed when he told me. And no wonder. Every night while on watch,
I saw the poor fellow slaving away at it
without sleep.  He must be so proud.
Now all that remains is to build it. The assistant has finally arrived.
She certainly took her time! Ha ha.  Still, it thrills me we can finally take
the next step forward. I expect great
things from these researchers. ...Hmm? What's that?
Oh, you want to know more about the
Master of Defense? Very well.  A long time ago, the Guild asked him to
become an Ace Hunter, but he
flatly refused.  I think he was wary of leaving the
little folk. He felt he belonged amongst
them, not above them. I think he felt the loftier you get,
the less perspective you actually have.
He is an interesting man.  ...Hmm? What's that?
You want to know what I think of
the Ace Commander?  I think he is deserving of my help,
and I enjoy giving it to him. I do often
wonder what he thinks of me, though. In many ways, he reminds me of his mentor.  You may not see the resemblance at a
glance, but I promise you, it is there!
Ha ha. What a relief to see you home safely!
You had rotten luck, running into that
Seregios.  I already told the Caravaneer and Cadet
as much, but to me it is unthinkable for
one to appear in these climes. Your employer and I have our suspicions
about WHAT could have happened, but we
are both at a complete loss as to WHY... The monster flying toward Dundorma
may be a threat, but so is the town
running out of food and supplies.  Nothing terrifies me more than the
town collapsing under its own weight
before it can even put up a fight.  I might have known you would put some zip
back in the town's step. Well done! Still, trouble often strikes when things
seem to be going best... You and I, at
least, should remain vigilant as ever.  What could have led to the
Seregios appearance?
What does it mean?  The Caravaneer and I have traded
theories, but it adds up to little more
than speculation.  Have you heard? The Cadet and I will
be leaving to conduct some field work. The mystery of the Seregios
appearance needs solving. If we discover
anything, we will send a bird. Take care of the town while we are gone,
and look after the Ace Commander.  He does have a bad habit of trying to
manage everything on his own. Our duties here have been fulfilled;
soon we will be given other missions.  Considering the range of work we do,
there is no guarantee the four of us
will be assigned to the same post again.  I hope that the Commander and I,
at least, remain a team... I want to
continue giving him what help I can.  Gone already? That WAS fast.
I would have liked to have spent more
time talking to my good friend...  About the old hunts, and the new hunters
who will one day take our places.  Will you be journeying on, then?
Where will you go next?  I need to visit the Guild and the
Elder Hall before I depart for
my next mission. If I do not see you again, take care,
friend. Look after that Caravan of yours. A   monster no one has seen ...
Such a strange story; though the damage
it has wrought is real enough.  Would you mind investigating if you go
on a Quest where the monster is known to
have struck?  Phantom or not, the monster is doing
genuine, serious harm. We cannot afford
to simply ignore it. Having written about "clandestine"
monsters before, I have a theory as to
what creature we may be dealing with. But until the Gunner can make visual
contact, I refuse to jump to any
conclusions.  We need to trust in her intuition and
hope she finds it soon. What a surprise. I was just about to tell
the Gunner that the monster had struck
again when she beat me to the punch. Not only did she know WHERE it would
hit, but she was there to see it.
I don't know how she does it.  Anyway, she suggested I fetch you at
once. With her advice, I think you stand
a good chance of hunting that monster.  I believe in those hunches of hers just
as much as I believe in you.  The Gunner's keen senses scare me
at times. Without even going to check it out, she
knew that monster wouldn't be where
I said. Sometimes, when we hunt together,
she navigates by stars that I wonder
if any other hunter can even see.  That kind of insight comes from
another plane. I gave trying to
explain it with science long ago. What I wouldn't give for even a fragment
of her talents! Ha ha. Good day. Do you ever use a Lance or
Gunlance?  Both weapons facilitate precise attacks
and a solid, shield-based defense.
You get the best of both worlds. If you haven't used them yet, I highly
recommend you give them a try. Those sentries by the Elder Hall
use Lances, too. I had best take care, in case they
decide to steal my title! Ha ha. Good day. Have you gotten used to
Dundorma yet? I expect we may need the help of you
and your Caravan to solve our current
predicament, so don't be a stranger. What luck that your Caravan came to town!
Your talents are, of course, welcome,
but we missed your company most of all. I was hoping you might lend our
commander some of your considerable
strength and wisdom.  He tries to handle everything alone, and
never complains -- but I suspect he needs
a shoulder outside the Aces to lean on.  The Professor at the Wyceum is one
of the world's great minds when it comes
to Frenzy research. Granted, it is a new field, but for
exactly that reason, great strides have
already been made.  You should speak with him. He's a bit
of an odd 'peco, but fascinating to
listen to all the same. Have you ever wondered where the elder
dragons came from? I know I have.
Many times.  Perhaps we mortals aren't meant to
know -- but then, why were we mortals
given brains to think about it?  Chasing one mystery leads to another,
and I soon am pondering the meaning of
life -- at which point I must give up. Yours was as fine a Monoblos hunt
as any I've heard recounted. Well done. Do you feel more legendary now? Ha ha.
Perhaps your legend is only
just starting. The damage wrought by elder dragons
plagued the old world just the same
as today. They are living calamities. History has left many records of the
Kushala Daora, mantled in wind, as
it lay waste to towns and villages. In its current state, even the great
Dundorma stands little chance
against a force of that magnitude. Seeing as our appointed mission is to
defend the town, we cannot so easily
leave it.  We must use outside contractors like
yourself to hunt monsters on our behalf. I apologize for the tremendous workload,
but I know you will come through for us. The folks at the Elder Hall
specifically chose you for a reason.  Good day. Do you ever use a Lance or
Gunlance?  Both weapons facilitate precise attacks
and a solid, shield-based defense.
You get the best of both worlds. If you haven't used them yet, I highly
recommend you give them a try. Those sentries by the Elder Hall
use Lances, too. I had best take care, in case they
decide to steal my title! Ha ha. Good day. Tell me, are you good at
holding your libations? The Caravaneer
and Master of Defense certainly can.  A keg and a half in, neither one of
them look flushed.  The Caravaneer was hoping to toast the
Master of Defense's success, so I imagine
his only regret is that he missed the chance.  Good day. You look the same as ever.  By the way, you seem to have had an
effect on the Cadet. He has been going at
his work with indomitable ferocity. I suspect he still dreams he can
surpass you. ...What is it they say?
"A dream is a hunt your heart makes"? Between the elder dragon's arrival
and the frenzied monsters, I cannot
fathom how we did it.  I suspect you were the key.
Few hunters have your talent, and fewer
still have your drive.  One day, you will have to tell me
your secret!  Where will you and the Capital C
go next, then? Will you journey on?  Ha ha. You don't have to explain. You could nail that Caravaneer's feet
to the ground and he'd still find a
way to take off on some adventure.  He's a falcon, that one -- an
uncontainable bundle of curiosity.  Good day. How have you been?
I and the others are the same as ever. Dundorma has become a temporary
base of operations while we see to
our new respective missions. Our commander has been cutting right
through his; it seems no task is too
challenging for him.  Many of the younger cadets who are
teamed with him marvel at just how fast
the work gets done.  I know that feeling all too well.
The man is superhuman at times. Ha ha!  Good day. The town has certainly
livened right up.  Still, a sense of security can be
dangerous. There remain countless
vicious monsters out there. Unless you've already gotten to
them? Ha ha.  Events in Dundorma have changed
our commander. He...  He's become a man of fewer words,
I suppose. Ha ha! People often talk about the "calm before
the storm"; personally, I believe it takes
a storm to know what "calm" is. Here in Dundorma, that cycle may well
repeat forever, but I intend to enjoy this
hard-earned peace, as I hope they will.  When the town is threatened again,
the hunters will answer the call. ...And
the Master of Defense, I hope! Ha ha. Ah, I see you are with friends today?
Take extra care out in the field,
and hunt to your heart's content! We will be waiting here in town for
your triumphant return. Aha! Just the hunter I was looking for.
Has our commander filled you in yet?  Then you know I have been put in charge of
building the   Wyceum  , and I
need your help. The academic community here in Dundorma
has made tremendous strides in Frenzy
research. For some time now, there have been
discussions of establishing a proper
facility for conducting such studies. Sadly, the recent monster attack forced
construction to be put by the wayside.  And by the wayside it has remained,
until now.  The Professor here has suggested
we bite the bullet and get the
facility done.  To start with, we need  two
specialized materials . One material must be resistant to heat.
After much trial and error, we concluded
 Cephadrome   materials work best. The other thing we need is chemically
resistant wood. The Primal Forest is full of it,
but all the  Nerscylla  on the prowl
there make it difficult to harvest. This is where you come in. I would like
your assistance with  hunting the
offending monsters  . Your Guildmarm should have two Quests
for you: "  Facility Facilitation "
and " Hunt-a-thon: Nerscylla  ."  Good luck. The help is appreciated. Ah, you've returned!
I was worried about you. As it happens, I just returned from the
field myself. An  urgent matter  has arisen which
I need to report to His Immenseness
at once.  I know you must be exhausted, but would
you mind joining me?  The truth I confronted may be too much
for His Immenseness to deal with
on his own. We should visit the   Elder Hall  
right away.  Thank you. We could not have done any
of this without you.  Both you and your Caravan have my
heartfelt thanks. My old friend the Master of Defense must
be at his new post by now. He was never
one to sit still.  I envy him. He can walk into any town
with naught but the shirt on his back,
and be part of the woodwork a day later. Myself, I am far too busy with my
hunting and science to take on a pupil.
But him...  I think he was put in this world to be
a shepherd. To gather people together,
to look after and nurture them. He's a marvel of a fellow.
I hope to see him again soon.  In the meantime, however, I shall occupy
myself with my own duties. Good day. What impeccable timing!
I have a sudden matter I was hoping to
discuss with you.  You see, the Guild has been flooded with
strange reports lately.  It sounds as though a monster is
harassing caravans across the land.  Specifically, it has been ravaging their
cargo the moment they aren't looking.  The strangest part has to be this:
 not one victim has actually seen the
monster   doing it.  All of this is so unconventional that
the Guild contacted me. And as a matter of fact, the situation
does ring familiar. I once wrote a book
on such "clandestine" monsters, after all. But theories are just theories. Before
jumping to any conclusions, I sought the
  Ace Gunner's help . I was hoping her uncanny intuition and
tremendous vision would help me ascertain
which culprit I was dealing with.  Unfortunately, though, when I asked her,
she just laughed and said casually,
"It's not going to be there."  How does she know? Wherever these
hunches of hers come from, they must
lie outside the bounds of science. At any rate, she's rarely mistaken.
But I prefer to back up hunches with fact.
That is where you come in. There is a Quest called
  " Devil at Heaven's Gate  ."  If you see the strange monster in
question, please report back to me. The Gunner said she will provide advice
once you are in the area.
Thank you, friend.  Good day. I was hoping you might stop by.
So, how did it go in the field? No sign of the strange monster, you say?
...Hmm, so be it. I still appreciate
the help. If I come up with anything else, I will
let you know. After all, you always come
through for me.  Ah! Hunter! I was looking for you. Yes,
unfortunately, the Guild has received   more
complaints about that strange monster  . Complaints, yes, but still no actual
confirmed sightings... This time, the report concerns a
Quest called   " Icy Shadow  ."  The Gunner laughed again. She still
insists that it won't be there. But the threat must be dealt with.
Would you mind going out into the field
for me again?  Report back if you see the monster.
The Gunner promised to provide advice
once you are in the area. Good day. I was hoping you might stop by.
So, how did it go in the field? Still no sign of the strange monster?!
...Hmm, so be it. I still appreciate
the help. The Gunner said she would continue
keeping an eye out. Certainly she will
tell us if anything changes...  If I come up with anything else, I will
let you know. After all, you always come
through for me.  Ah! Hunter! I was looking for you. Yes,
unfortunately, the Guild has received   more
complaints about that strange monster  . Complaints, yes, but still no actual
confirmed sightings... This time, the report concerns a
Quest called   " Shrouded in Mystery ."  The monster must be fast if it can
move from one place to another so
quickly... The Gunner insists it won't be there,
but I have a duty to track it down. Would you mind going out into the field
for me again? Report back if you see the monster.
The Gunner promised to provide advice
once you are in the area. Good day. I was hoping you might stop by.
So, how did it go in the field? STILL no sign of the strange monster?
...Hmm, so be it. But I saw the grave look in the Gunner's
eyes as she continued her watch.
We must be nearing an answer... If I come up with anything else, I will
let you know. Ah! Hunter! I was looking for you.
We finally found it! Well, the Gunner
found it, to be precise. The strange monster...
The elder dragon   Chameleos . No one knew if it was really there or
not, but the Gunner found it deep within
the Everwood.  You will see just how strange it is
when you encounter it... And you do
intend to go, don't you?  I filed an  Urgent Quest  :
  " Into the Mist ."  The Gunner promised to provide advice
once you are in the area.
Good luck, friend.  Well done! The Gunner told me all about
you and the Chameleos.  She said you gave her a glimpse of real
intuition -- that she saw the work of an
experienced hunter out there.  It sounds like a hunt for the ages.
A shame I had to miss it! Ha ha.  Thank you again for all your help with
this mystery. I count myself lucky to
know you.  Hello. I heard some startling news!
Is it true you completed
The Master's Test? Incredible. It's strange; how different you are from
any other hunter I have met. Decades from now, I shall struggle to
describe you to future generations
of hunters, as will be my duty.  Someone so singular simply cannot be
encapsulated in words, but I can speak
of the great things you accomplished. I look forward to that day, when I have
finished my present obligations and can
reflect on the best of times.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC082 (Ace Gunner in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC082 (Ace Gunner in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 17883 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:52:50
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: c5887bc79892ac1c5e45abb1144e59611d6e886bb5fb9765645e7cc6e02f24bf
================================================================================

﻿You know, I thought you might show up.
And I'm glad you did.  Our fearless leader is happy to see you
too, sour expression aside. But you know how he is. I think it takes
more effort for him NOT to make a face.  I'm in charge of powering up the
Dragonseer.  At the moment, we're researching fuel
alternatives that will allow the ship to
keep an eye on larger areas. You can't beat aerial intel, whether
you're trying to defend a town or hammer
out a strategy. Every lead is precious. So, the Master of Defense is on his
way back to Dundorma. I haven't
seen him in forever!  He was my mentor too, you know.
Don't think I'm gonna tell you how long
ago, though! Heh heh. Oh! Welcome back. No broken bones?
Heh heh. I didn't think so.  Did the Commander tell you about powering
up the Dragonseer?  You should probably get it straight
from him. I need you to hunt an Emerald Congalala.  Whenever you're up to it, the Quest is
called: "Hot-air Buffoon."
Thanks! Once the Dragonseer can fly longer
distances, we'll be able to get more
accurate elder dragon warnings. The earlier we know one is coming, the
earlier we can prepare, so let's hope
this works.  So, have you noticed the Dragonseer
during your hunts? Flying overhead? Don't forget to wave. For a short while,
they'll tell you locations of large
monsters in the area.  We were able to whip up some quality
fuel from that Emerald Congalala gas
you secured for us. Thanks again. The Dragonseer will probably start
doing tours of the Dunes soon,
so keep your eyes to the sky. Next, I need your help with the
Wyceum. Did the Commander
and Lancer fill you in? As you can imagine, The Professor is
pretty gung-ho about getting it built --
maybe TOO gung-ho.  The man talks so fast, you're lucky to
catch a word as it flies out of
his mouth. Heh heh.  So, have you noticed the Dragonseer
during your hunts? Flying overhead? Don't forget to wave. For a short while,
they'll tell you locations of any
large monsters in the area.  Looks like construction on the Wyceum
is going swimmingly.  The Professor has been championing you
left and right for all you've done.
Says you're a "go-getter." Or at least I think that's what he's
saying, heh heh... The words zoom out
like a charging Rhenoplos! My mentor should reach Dundorma
any day now. He let us know by
carrier bird.  You know, I studied under him before
even our commander did. We go way,
way back. He didn't stop being an inspiration when
I struck out on my own, and I imagine
he never will. I still remember when he took our
commander under his wing. Took one look
at him and said...  "This one's got a stick up his butt --
but one day it'll be a stick of iron."
Truer words were never spoken. Heh heh! Thanks for collecting those materials
for the Wyceum. This should get us
started on building. Oh! Did our commander tell you yet?
About the emergency? Go see him.  The Cadet and I will head out to my
mentor's sandskiff and prepare for
extraction.  All you need to do is hunt the
Monoblos and secure us a way
out of there. Think you can handle that?
'Course you can. Heh heh.  I'll tell you, it feels strange to be
rescuing my own mentor. It used to be HIM pulling ME out of
hot water -- and more than once, too.
How times change. I know it's tearing our commander up that
he can't go himself, but it's not his
place and he knows it.  That's why he has me.
He thinks it, I do it.  Now, let's get this show on the road.
And be careful out there -- that
Monoblos will be no pushover!  Oh! I've got a favor to ask.  You must have noticed those dark clouds
in the distance. They don't sit right
with me.  Could you bring it up with our
commander? Thanks. Whew. We can all breathe a sigh of
relief now that my mentor has made it
here safe and sound. You and the Ace Hunters make a fine team;
we've got good rhythm.  Listen, just between you and me...
I was terrified back there.
My hands wouldn't stop shaking.  Even one missed shot could have been the
mistake that got the man who made a
hunter out of me killed. ...What's that? Celebrate? A feast?
Ha ha. Thanks. That sounds nice.
Sure, let's invite the Cadet, too. That way he can do all the talking,
you can do all the listening, and I can
do all the eating. Heh heh! Huh? You want to know what my mentor
is like? Well, he's a tough fellow
to describe.  That serene face hides a bold spirit.
And even though the man's made of iron,
he knows when to be delicate. On hunts, he could wait like a statue --
but one sign of danger and he and his
Hammer would fly right at it. Whoosh!  Didn't matter if he got banged up in
the process -- and he often did.
I'll tell ya, he was something. They say the elder dragon Kushala Daora
can conjure up bad weather. Wherever it goes, tempests and blizzards
soon follow. You saw for yourself. And now, these clouds...
The storm's not through with us yet. Huh? What's that? You want to know
more about my mentor?  Well, let's just say he's genuine.
What you see is what you get.  Huh? What's that? You want to know
more about our commander?  Well, let's just say he's honest.
For better or for worse.  Our fearless leader was my mentor's
last pupil. He was there during his
final hunt. Oh, don't get me wrong. I'm just glad
they made it back safely. He'll always be a hunter in my heart.
Nothing could ever change that. Did my mentor tell you? I'll be going
out to capture a Rathian.
Leave it to me. The Guild and the merchant's associates
are out trying to locate it.  Listen -- do me a favor and don't tell
the Commander I'm going. He won't agree to let me go up against
a Rathian -- not alone.  I don't want to get into it, but
promise me. Okay?  I've never seen a Seregios
either, actually. You have to wonder
what rock it crawled out from under...  And why...  Don't tell the Little Miss about my
excursion either. I don't want to
worry her.  Thanks... Sorry.  Welcome back! I just returned myself.
Heh heh.  What? Oh, don't worry. The Rathian is
in the bag, and me? I'm just fine.  See? Barely a scratch.
Don't you start worrying, too. By the way -- while I was out dealing
with the Rathian, I noticed
something suspicious. There was this Azure Rathalos...
I don't think it intended to leave its
territory, but something was still off. I wish I could put my finger on it... Yeah, I heard. The Lancer and Cadet are
heading into the field. The Lancer's a biologist, so I'm sure
he'll get to the bottom of the
Seregios.  But I have to be honest: the two of them
heading off like this reminds me a little
too much of Gore Magala. When things went wrong with Gore
Magala, reporting back to the Guild
became priority one. That was our commander's call. And he
wanted to be the one to stay behind so
the rest of us could escape. But the Lancer told him no; the hunter
in charge has a duty to return safely. Still, our commander wouldn't do it.
I had to practically knock him over the
head and drag him home -- I dung you not.  He's still kind of mad about it, too.
Heh heh. I don't know what I'm going to
do with him.  The Ace Commander and I will stay garrisoned
here while the Lancer and Cadet finish
their field work on the Seregios. What you need to do is hunt a
Brute Tigrex. I'll do what I can to beef up the
Dragonseer -- I promise.  Hello. You just missed the Lancer
and Cadet. They said they'll see
you soon.  ...What, are you worried?
Well, I'm not.  I am concerned for their well-being,
but I've learned to trust them.
If that makes any sense. A whole bunch of craftsmen in the
Battlequarters are hard at work on the
defensive weapon my mentor designed. Weather's not getting any better, I'll
tell you that. We need to finish that
weapon before the elder dragon shows up. Stay calm. It's times like these when
composure really counts.  We'll stay near the town and protect
everyone from the frenzied monsters. You head out and hunt the one the
Lancer and Cadet found. All right? Good.  Have you visited the Wyceum?
As I understand it, they made some kind
of breakthrough. I hope it's some way to level the field
against those frenzied monsters.
Make sure you stop by. Welcome back. It's really good to
see you safe. The Lancer sent a letter. He's still
out in the field.  I haven't had a chance to read it yet,
but my mentor has. Mind asking him for
a rundown?  You know, it's strange. All signs point
to the frenzied Deviljho being
part of a bigger problem.  And the elder dragon is still an ever-
present threat.  But look around you. The townsfolk
aren't giving up. If anything, they're
working twice as hard as before.  Could it be because the defensive
weapon is done? Or because my mentor
is here? Maybe because they have you.  Or maybe it's all of those things.  Something terrible is lurking deep in
the Everwood -- something even
worse than the Deviljho. I know. It's just a hunch... But this
one's nagging won't relent. Leave the town defense to us.
You go on out there and work your magic.
We're counting on you. Whew. Look around at all those
happy faces. I think we all missed
looking up and seeing blue. Heh heh.  So long, cloudy skies and clouded hearts! Oh, don't you waste your time worrying
about me. I know I'll see him again. Might not be tomorrow, or next year.
But when you strike out on your own as a
hunter, that's what you sign up for.  Absence makes the heart grow fonder!
Heh heh. What's that? Come with you on a hunt
right now? Ha ha! I wish I could. The vistas we'd
see on a clear day like this?
They'd be breathtaking for sure. Did the Lancer tell you about the
  strange monster  no one has ever
seen before? I'm not planning to head out yet.
I thought I'd stick around and look for
it here.  How do I know that mysterious monster
won't show up during the Quest the Lancer
told you about? Oh, I just have hunches about
these things. You know me.  ...Not a good enough answer?
Too bad! I'm not the kind of girl to
give up ALL her secrets. Heh heh. Heh heh. Sounds like you're up. That  mysterious elder dragon  you
and the Lancer have been chasing was
spotted deep in the Everwood. Guess that makes it real after all, huh?  If this target is as weird and wondrous
as they say, you'd better brace yourself
for some surprises!  They don't come more formidable than that
elder dragon you're after, but if anyone
can pull it off, it's you. How do I know? Oh, just a hunch.  Another hunch: pack lots of Antidotes.
Trust me on this one! Heh heh. Hello. How goes the hunting?
We're still hard at work preparing for
the elder dragon attack.  We'll probably ask for help down the
line with town repairs and other errands.  But you don't mind pitching in, right?
You love that stuff! Heh heh.  Hello there. What's wrong?
...Hey, relax. Keep your chin high.
Have to set a good example, right? When the task in front of you seems too
hard, take a moment to look off into
the distance. That always calms me down. Hey there. Still in one piece?  Our leader's been worried. Whenever you
go off on hunts alone, you add another
wrinkle to his constipation's brow.  ...Ha ha. Don't feel bad. It's his
fault for getting so worked up. Right? That Guildmarm of yours knows her
monsters back and forth and upside down.  She let me have a peek at her notebook.
Real impressive stuff.  That merchant of yours is so charming.  The other day, he did some kind of trick
with his handkerchief and made this
lovely white flower appear.  It was such a nice gift.
I don't know how he did it!  Back from the hunt?
I hope you're not hurt.
Let me have a look. Wounds need to be treated right away.
Don't be stubborn about it, or you'll
wind up regretting it.  ...Hm? What am I always staring at? I like to look off into the distance.
Gotta keep watch and see what weather
is coming. And what monsters. And I guess...I hope that one day I'll
look out there and things will look
new and different. Some kind of change.  The clouds up there hang low and thick.
When you can't see past something,
that's called uncertainty. The day those clouds clear and we can
see the blue sky again? That's when
we'll know Dundorma is safe.  Don't ask me why -- somehow I just know
it to be true.  The town is lucky your caravan
dropped by. So are we, to be honest. If you don't mind, our commander could
probably use your help.  He always tries to face his problems
alone, but it's not good for him...
Go be his medicine.  Have you been to the Assembly?
There's a Diva there.  She's quite lovely -- in fact, I can't
remember the last time I've seen someone
that beautiful. Hello. Fine weather we're having! Someone told me once that if you don't
like the weather, hunt it off and then
get a good night's sleep. Eventually you'll wake up to
clear skies. Hi there. How you doing?  I hope we get to do a mission together
again soon. That would brighten up
my week! Heh heh. Well, look at you!
Happy as a lark. The Little Miss is in high spirits, too.
Must be something in the air today!
Heh heh. Hey, you remember when I headed out to
capture that Rathian alone?  The Commander still thinks I left
Dundorma to do a tour on the
Dragonseer...  I guess it's safe to tell him the
truth now, huh? That cook of yours is such a gentleman. When I dropped by his stand the other
day, he said he "purr-pared" my favorite,
and gave me seconds, too. Why can't everyone be so generous?  That merchant of yours treats me
like gold. Every time I stop by, he gives me
discounts and free items. Flowers
and sweets, too.  He might spoil me if he's not careful.
Heh heh! That Kushala Daora was a beauty.
It's hard not to marvel at nature. True, it posed a threat to the town.
It had to go.  But I can't bring myself to hate it
any more than I could hate the sky or
the sea.  Their loveliest moments are also their
most angry.  Do you think my mentor is faring
all right? When I see birds in the distance, I often
wonder if one of them carries a letter
from him.  I know I'm just one of many hunters
he took under his wing, but to me?
That was home. I hope life always treats him well. Hello. Heading off to a hunt? Oh, nice gear. Can I have a look? ...Wow! This is impressive work.
I like what the artisan did with the
trim here.  Hello. Just back from a hunt? What's that? You want to see my gear?
Sure, why not? Heh heh. So what do you think?
...Oho! Really? Glad I asked, then. Hello. How are you holding up?  What's that? Go on a hunt together? Sure. Can I take the Cadet along too?
Heh heh.  Oh, so you're hunting with friends
today? Have a good time! If you see the Dragonseer up there,
don't forget to wave. Well, hello there! So you're on the
job too, huh? This must be our lucky
day. Heh heh.  Has anyone explained the  Dragonseer  
to you yet?  Sometimes, when you're out on Quests,
you might see an airship flying
overhead. That's the Dragonseer.  Their job is to watch for approaching
elder dragons. And for that, you need a
wyvern's-eye view.  But they can't stay aloft forever with
present fuel sources, which rules out
vast areas like the Dunes. Researchers think   Emerald Congalala
gas might make a better fuel.
And that's where you come in.  Think you could   hunt an Emerald Congalala
for us?  I filed a Quest with the Guildmarm
called: "  Hot-air Buffoon ."  Thanks in advance. I'm counting on you!
I know you'll come through. All set? You're always on the ball,
aren't you? Well, here's the strategy.  My group will track down my mentor and
take him under our protection. In the meantime, I need you to draw the
Monoblos away and hunt it.  Once the area is secure, we'll be able
to escort my mentor home.
Sound doable?  ...What's that? Why can't a former
hunter like my mentor take care of
the monster himself?  Fair enough. But have you stopped to ask
yourself why he's not a hunter anymore?  Not long after our commander joined the
Ace Hunters, he and my mentor
went out hunting. But along the way, they ran into an
  unexpected monster  . They managed to wound it and drive it
off, but my mentor was badly hurt and
had to retire from hunting. ...Any other questions?
All right, then.  Safe hunting out there.
Wish us luck, too.  Now that is the sky that I've missed. And I'm glad we get to bask in it
together. It's thanks to your fine work
that we pulled the mission off. My mentor had to move on, but I'll bet
my zenny he's thinking up ways to defend
wherever he winds up next.  Some people never change. They were made
to do one thing, and they charge on
through life doing it. ...What's that now? Oh.
You're worried about our commander? Ha!
He'll get over it.  You saw the look on their faces.
They know they'll meet again. Hunters
like them usually do.  Hunters like you and me, too, I hope.
You made this crazy stunt a lot more
fun than it had to be. Heh!  Maybe if we both keep at it, we'll have
a crack at even wilder adventures
someday.  I'll try not to get too old and flabby
in the meantime. Heh heh.  Well -- you did it again.
Saw right through that Chameleos,
didn't ya?  Just watching a hunt that exquisite from
up close was a treat.  You know, if you keep at it, you might
put us all to shame one day. I look at you and see a hunter with the
potential to be kinder and stronger than
any other. One who can read nature, become one
with it, and ultimately control it.
A   true monster hunter . What makes me so sure?
...Oh, I just know. Heh heh. Hello there. I heard the good news!
You overcame my mentor's challenge. Not that I'm surprised -- I knew you'd
shape up to be a kinder, stronger hunter
than any. The corners of the world you visit will
become foundations on which people can
build happy, fulfilling lives. That's not a hunch anymore, either.
You've proved it!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC083 (Ace Cadet in Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC083 (Ace Cadet in Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 19493 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:53:02
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: fa42a27a8c05b1f052d40224be180838fb9f56d9ed8ec1535ab1bac7bb9668fc
================================================================================

﻿What's that? You forgot what you have to
do next? Oh, you!  I need you to hunt a  Daimyo Hermitaur  ... so the sandskiffs can safely and swiftly
deliver the materials I need to fix up
the Battlequarters. The Guildmarm should have the Quest
on file. Good luck, sharqslice! So the Master of Defense was our
commander's mentor?  'Cause that makes him my mentor's mentor!
He's, like, my grandmentor! I need to make a good impression.
So, uh, yeah. Help me out with that?
Pretty plesioth? Dundorma never fails to please.
I love it here! If you get some time off, drop by the
Assembly. The Diva there will serenade
your face off. For reals.  You've been a huuuge help with the
Battlequarters repairs. Everything's on
track, so, uh... Zenny thanks? Heh heh.  I'm gonna fix the place up so nice, the
Master of Defense's eyes'll pop out.
Just you wait! Next, we need to beef up the Dragonseer.
The Gunner's our resident
expert on the subject. I'll handle Battlequarters stuff, so you
can go ahead and help her out for now.
Thankantors!  The Gunner has, like, uncanny eyesight.
That makes her a shoo-in for the
Dragonseer mission.  Her ears and nose are pretty sharp, too.
She can usually tell what item I've got
in my pocket.  Now, we need to get ready to build the
Wyceum. Exciting!  I hear the Wyceum will be able to engineer
loads of useful items. Sounds pretty
groovios! Not that I know a thing about
Frenzy research! You might as well
ask me to speak Qurupeco.  *Whistle* Didn't take you long to blow
through the Gunner's request, huh? Let's see if we can get the
Wyceum done half as fast!
Put the pedal to the gobul! *Whistle* You made short work of the
Lancer's request, huh? Let's see if we can get the
Wyceum done half as fast!
Put the pedal to the gobul! So, like, the Commander's mentor will
be here any day now, right? I'm as nervous as a monster's medulla!
I mean, what do you think he's like? If he's a grump, then stick close to me.
Neither one of us should have to get
chewed out alone! Heh heh.  Hey! Did you see the Wyceum?
We got all the materials we need!  Oh, and did you talk to our commander?
You TOTALLY should.  Hmm... So many choices... Do I keep it
versatile with a Sword & Shield?
Go in nimble with an Insect Glaive? Maybe I'll pack Dual Blades and really
knock his socks off! But what if he
doesn't wear socks... Hmm... ...What do you mean, "who?" The Master
of Defense! I need to pick a weapon for
his rescue. First impressions count! So, how about that Monoblos?
Baddest monster ever or BADDEST-EST
monster ever?! Taking it down solo would be epic!
What hunter wouldn't want to stick THAT
feather in his cap? Hot dangalala! The Master of Defense used to
be a hunter, right? He might give that Monoblos the
slip before we get a chance to
rescue him! Heh heh. Sis, you were AMAZING during that
last mission! Gimme five! The way you leapt in to defend the
sandskiffs when that brute did his
chargey thing? TOTALLY gargwawsome. ...Oh. Hey, hunter! Me and the Gunner
were just doing a little debriefing.  Of course, you deserve credit too.
Thanks to you, the Master of Defense
made it back safe and sound! Sweet. I got to chat with the Master of Defense
while escorting him back to Dundorma.  I wanted to hear stories about him and
the Commander...but I kinda ended up
talking about myself the whole time.  He's a dang good listener...
I'm lucky I stopped short of blurting out
any embarrassing secrets.  I found time to talk more with the
Master of Defense. He said he favored
a Hammer back in his hunting days. That's tied for MY favorite weapon, too!
I feel closer to him already.  How do you feel about the Hammer?
...Fair enough. To each his ownage! I had a shocking revelation while
shooting the breeze with the Master
of Defense that you won't believe!  The Gunner was his pupil, too!
She and the Commander both!  ...! Hmm.
You don't seem all that shocked.  The Lancer studied with the Master
of Defense. The Commander and Gunner
were his pupils... But me?  Looks like I'm the only one stuck out
in the rain... To him, I'm a nobody.
Bummertaur.  I guess I just need to try harder to
make a good impression! Then one day
he might consider me his...um...  Acquaintance? Groupie?
Accountant? ...Ooh, that's it!
I bet he doesn't have one of those yet. Or need one...*sigh*  Psst. Is the Commander looking any
better? ...Wh-whoa, don't stare!
You'll blow my cover! He's so down in the dumps. I'm super
worried. What's bothering him? I think I might have screwed up.
That's why I'm hiding here.  Could you, you know, casually ask him
what's wrong? I hate feeling hermitorn
up like this! Baw... Oh, and whatever you do, make no mention
of me! You haven't seen me!  *Sigh* I just know I let the Commander
down again.  I am such a molid-head. I oughta be
dragged out and blighted. I guess I'll just stay here and hope the
world forgets I ever existed. Baw... The Commander's down in the dumps and
the guy at the Assembly looks
"wearier" than ever.  Even I'm feeling kind of weary now... You know that the Lancer and the
Master of Defense started hunting around
the same time, right? When we went to get the Master
of Defense, he said, "Still a fine hunter,
I see." And the way he smiled at the Lancer --  I don't know how to describe it, but it
made me wish he was my mentor, too. Not that I'm unhappy learning from the
Commander. Quite the opposite! I just feel like I ought to be doing
something to take a load off the Master
of Defense's mind. Like he deserves it.  The way I see it, if you consider the
habitat of the Seregios-- Oh. Rough time out there, huh?
Well, I won't waste too much energy
worrying.  You've already proven you can bounce back
from worse than that! Heh heh.  The Gunner is heading out to capture a
Rathian. But she warned me not to breathe a word
of it to the Commander. "Or else,"
she said.  Don't worry. I'll keep my lips zipped.
I don't want her roughing me up.
...Again. Off to hunt the Seregios, I hear.
Well, good luck out there! Give that beast
a few extra whacks from me!  I'll hold down the fort while
you're gone. Cadet's honor! Yahoo! We can finally pick up the
picking up where we left off. Yup!  I was starting to miss the repair work,
too. Feels like it's my birthday! The Gunner went out to capture a
Rathian. But no telling the Commander.
Keep your lips zipped. Trust me.  You don't want her roughing you up. Hey there! How's hunts?
Back from taking down that Black Gravios? Well, I didn't waste too much energy
worrying.  You've already proven you can handle
nastier nasties than that! Heh heh.  The Gunner's back from capturing that
Rathian.  Somehow I managed to not blurt the news
to the Commander... She would've roughed
me up for sure if I did. Ka-blonk! Oh, did you hear? Me and the Lancer are
heading out to do some super special
field work.  He and the Caravaneer are working out the
finer points as we speak. Expect great things. After all, you're
talkin' to a narga-fide expert when it
comes to field work!  If I do well with the field work,
will the Commander look good in front of
the Master of Defense? I hope so. It makes me look good if he
looks good because I look good.
...I think.  Don't worry! I may not be scholarly
enough to help the Lancer on that level,
but I have other qualities. Yup. ...I'll leave that open-ended. Whatever
qualities you think I have, those are
the ones I'll help him with.  That frenzied Brachydios was one
seriously tough customer. For reals! You should TOTALLY stop by the
 Wyceum   and see if they know of
anything that might give you the edge. So there we were trudging gallantly
forward when BAM! The behemoth comes
into view. The Lancer leapt in and-- Oh! Hey there. It's unlikely that
  frenzied Brachydios  was just a fluke.
Other monsters might be affected.  I've gotta stick around here in case
those things decide to go wacknaktor on
the town.  That frenzied Brachydios was one
seriously tough customer.  Have you had a chance to stop by
the Wyceum yet?
Really? Okay...  Sis, did you read the letter from the
Lancer? What the qurupeck is goin' on?! Oh! Hunter, you're back!
Am I glad you're safe. Listen, you need to speak with the Master
of Defense, like, yesterday! ASAP!  Sis, c'mon! I said I don't mind
doing it. I'll run on ahead and put that
frenzied Deviljho in the ground! ...Huh? What do you mean, do my job?
...All right, all right. I know my orders
are to defend the town.  Oh! Hunter! Me and the Gunner are gonna
stick around and chase off any frenzied
monsters that try to attack.  Do you mind hunting the Deviljho
while we do? Thanks! Sis, I talked with the Commander and
we assigned battle stations in case the
frenzied monsters attack.  I'll handle the closest monsters from
here, and you can cover me from here...
The Commander will direct us from here... Oh! Hey there, Hunter. Don't you worry.
We'll get this town locked down tighter
than a Tigrex's bite! Yo! How's hunts?  Heading out to work? I'm thinking about
hunting, too. Wouldn't want to waste a fine day
like this. Gotta love those blue skies! I wonder what the Master of Defense
thinks of me now. Does he even remember
that I'm his pupil's pupil? I sure hope so... I don't want to be
left grandmentorless...  Anyway, what do you think?  Now that I run the Battlequarters
repairs, would you say I look taller?
Possibly more authoritative?  ...Where are you going? Yo! How's it congalangin'?
I'm doing great. Thanks for asking!  They decided to let me call the shots
for the Battlequarters repairs. I've got
it handled, so rest easy while you hunt. Hey, what's up? It's not like you to
loaf around here.  ...Wh-what?! You're TIRED of hunting? Omiwrog! Are you sick? Do you have
a fever? Have you recently experienced
the loss of a loved one? A favorite pet?  That's no reason to give up on life!
Commander! COMMANDER!  We need an intervention! Talk some
sense into this poor wretch!
"Tired of hunting"?! Yeesh! You look like you want to take some
time off and hone your mind, not just
your hunting skills.  Self-betterment -- I get it.
In fact, I know the perfect teacher. Lancer! Laaanceeer! I found another
potential student! This one's got
potential, I tell ya! A go-getter!  Break out the really difficult course
material -- this one can take it! What's wrong? Are you hurt?
Omiwrog! Don't move!  Sis? Sis! Where are you? Grab your
first-aid kit! We need a medic!  Sis? Hello? The patient is in
excruciating pain! Crying a river,
I tell ya! Hurry up! ...What's that? You want to know if
there's any easier way to get the
materials you're after? Hmm. I never, ever have that problem,
so I don't think I can help you.  ...Oh! But I hear there's a meal you
can have cooked up that increases Quest
Rewards. Maybe I dreamed it? *shrug* That knife the Master of Defense
carries is the same one all hunters carry.
It proves that deep down, he's one of us! If you're a hunter, you hang on to your
trusty hunting knife for life.  Have you been doing your homework
before hunts? The Markets in each town sell Monster
Info books that can be a huge help. I love books. I heart them. For reals.
I read every one cover to cover --
they make the hours fly right by. The Commander gets so jaggin' mad
at me when I head off to hunt alone --
absolutely furious.  He does it all the time, so why does
he blow a gasket with me? It's not fair. I guess he doesn't see me as a full-
fledged hunter yet. Guess I'll have to
keep applying myself. *sigh*  What's next on the hunting docket?
...Really? Nice. I go out on all kinds of hunts with the
Commander, but we haven't hunted a
Rathian together even once.  Hey! Been a while! ...Sort of.
Not really. Heh heh. I had a great time teaming up with you
on that mission the other day. I know you're assigned to the Caravan
and can't come on all our missions, but I
bet we'd have fun times if you did. Nice weather, huh? On sunny days like
this, all I can think about is going
for a run in the Everwood. Now, if only I could find the wagon...  Hey. Feeling pretty confident with
that weapon? I'm confident with any weapon.
But the Commander has me beat when it
comes to one: the Dual Blades. The Commander's pretty much the best.
Yup. I hope I'm, like, one-twelfth the
hunter he is someday.  Hey. How's it--
What? Why are you giving me that look?  Oh! You noticed I haven't changed my
equipment in a while.  Pfft. Asked like a true amateur!  I already maxed all my equipment out
with Armor Spheres. My defense is so
high I practically glow! ...Jealous?  That's one sneaky Felyne you keep on as
a cook. When I dropped by his stand with the
Gunner, he made ME pay and let HER eat
for free. Why do I always get the short end of
the Cudgel Onion? *grumble*  Does that merchant of yours ever lower
his prices?  I've been throwing my money at him
for-EVER, and he still won't lop a single
zenny off his prices.  I'd take my business elsewhere, but...
I LIKE shopping there. *grumble* I wonder how the Master of Defense
is doing. He wasn't the kind of person
I was expecting at all. I didn't know he was so much like our
Commander, for starters.  I went to hunt a Rathian with
the Commander the other day.  He spent the whole time glaring at me
and telling me I need to work on my
focus. ...It was nice.  The Commander stopped yelling at me for
going out on hunts alone. Does that mean I finally make the grade?
'Cause that would be gargwawsome.  ...Very gargwawsome, actually.
Heh heh. What do you think?  The other day, the Guildmarm showed me
her notebook.  Her sketches were...a little sketchy,
but the stuff she wrote about monsters
was actually super insightful. I was really impressed. In a lot of
ways, her stuff is better than what's
been published. I guess that's why she took the job --
to learn more about what she loves.
And I can relate to that, in a way.  Sorry. Rambling! *blush*  Oh! Hunting with friends?
Take me along! Pretty plesioth? I can't undertake any Quests because I
blew all my money on gear. Whoops. Hey hey! Long time no ceadeus.
How's hunts? The Commander said he was bringing in
the best -- I should've known he was
talking about you. For reals.  Oh, me? Yeah, heh heh. They put me in
charge of fixing up the   Battlequarters  . Pretty radalos, am I right?
I think I make a pretty boss boss.  The Battlequarters are an extra special
hunting area which the town uses to head
off monster attacks. True fact!  Whenever danger closes in, they turn the
commons into a makeshift camp and prepare
to send the threat pack-naktoring. The entrance is right over
there -- go past the Quest Gate and keep
following the passage.  Not that you need to head out there
just yet, but I figured you'd want
to know. Kirin is sharin'! So, you might have heard the
Battlequarters got trashed pretty bad
during the last monster attack...  I sure hope I can get it patched up
before the Master of Defense arrives. I need you to hunt a  Daimyo Hermitaur   so
the sandskiffs can deliver the materials
I need safely and on time. I'd go myself, but I'm boss class now,
so I need to hold down the fort here.
Well, more like pick it up, but... Anyway! I filed a Quest called
"  Skiff Scuttler  " with
the Guildmarm. Oh! I was gonna ask you...  Is it true the Master of Defense was
the  Commander's mentor  ? 'Cause that, like, makes him my
mentor's mentor! He's my grandmentor! I sure need to make sure I don't fail
him as a grandpupil. That would giggisux
BIG time!  Psst! Can I talk to you a sec?  I went to ask the Commander something,
and he gave me this totally half-baked
response. ...That's not like him at all!  Did I do something to upset him?
Did I let him down somehow?  I am such a molid-head. I must have
failed him -- I know it. I oughta be
dragged out and blighted.  Now he's down in the dumps and the guy
at the   Assembly   looks
"wearier" than ever. Even I'm feeling kind of weary.
And bleary. Not so cheery. It's eerie.
...... Well? What are you waiting for?
Commiserate with me! I hate feeling
hermitorn up like this! Baw...  Whew... After a glass of water and a
chance to catch my breath, the situation
doesn't seem so bad...  It seems WORSE! We are in so much deep
monster dung, I don't even know where
to begin!  Calm yourself, for the love of dragons!
Just tell us what you learned about the
Seregios. I didn't get that far, sir!
I had to run right back to warn you!  They're BACK! They are SO...wroggin'...BACK!  I saw a frenzied Brachydios!  And it saw me! Oh, it was horrible! What?! A frenzied monster?  No, that's not possible.
Shagaru Magala has already been
dealt with!  Frenzied monsters, you say...
I've never seen one myself. The only way they could conceivably turn
up now is if   something OTHER than
Shagaru Magala  was making it so.  Well, hold on a moment -- we cannot make
such bold assertions just yet. If the Frenzy has made it this far,
what's to stop it from spreading
elsewhere? It might even reach us here!  Take a moment to compose yourself,
and then tell us everything you saw,
Cadet. And I mean everything. Y-y-yessir! All will be fine soon, m'boy. I suggest our first priority be to
contain any potential damage from
frenzied monsters. Hunter, I would like to ask you to hunt
the one we know about: the frenzied
Brachydios. As I understand it, you are one of the
few hunters -- perhaps the ONLY hunter --
worthy of the task.  The Ace Hunters will remain here in
Dundorma to hold off any monsters
that approach. We'll build two walls. Oh, and before you go, Hunter, you should
stop by the   Wyceum  .
They've made a breakthrough recently. It should prove effective against
frenzied monsters, including the
frenzied Brachydios you face.  Perfect! While you're at the Wyceum,
I'll file that Quest to take
down the Brachydios.  Splendid! Best of luck, Hunter.
And be careful out there. Hey, what's up? How's hunts?  Me? Oh, you know me.
I'm always in a good mood... Even when you take home all the honor
and glory AGAIN. Which is FINE. So, who was your mentor? That's what I'd
like to know. ...Oh really?  Mine's the Commander, of course.
I'd follow him to the ends of the earth!
Even if he told me not so.  I'd just hang a few paces back and keep
being his pupil in secret.  If I ever have a pupil someday, I'm
gonna tell him or her all about how
gargwawsome the Commander is. By then my teeth might be falling out,
so I'll be all, like, "He wuff a weally
gweat Commander, yupperff!"  "Fafed my life more than wunff!" And my
pupil won't care that I make no sense,
because that's what pupils are for.  I know what you're up to, buster.
Don't think you can pull the carapace
over my eyes! You think you can get all buddy-buddy
with the Master of Defense before I do. You finished that Quest!
The Master's Test! How could you steal my thunder like that?
I was this close to pulling it off!
We are so not friends anymore.  All I wanted was to finish that Quest
so the Master of Defense would say... "Nice job, m'boy. You are the most
gargwawsome person I've ever met and
ever will." Was that too much to ask? Pfft... Whatever. I should have known
you'd beat me to it. It's not worth
wrogging up a friendship over.  But this is the last time! See if I
let you beat me to the punch again!
Heh heh.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC090 (Master Tool).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC090 (Master Tool).txt
SIZE: 5989 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:53:16
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0bf6a3493e8a912d486b548f400a9602e4a6424ab6bd7446d17482a31350f069
================================================================================

﻿Let's do some deals, Hunter.  

Catch you later, Hunter.  

Everythin' half-off, Hunter!  

Don't forget to invest in some items
before the hunt. For a cool Hunter like
you, I recommend some Cool Drinks. Ho ho.  

What's goin' on, Hunter? Huntin' with
your friends? Alright. Why not invest
in some items before you go?  

What's goin' on, Hunter? First time to
my store? This here is the   Market  .
I got the items you need for huntin' beasts!  Let me know if anything catches your eye.
And check out my  Monster Info
books  . Knowledge is a weapon, too! 

What's goin' on, Hunter? Why do I look
so happy? Ho ho. I finally got the
  Monster Info book  I ordered! You like Carapaceons, you'll love this. And
more deliveries to come! You've got to
expand your mind AND your muscles, Hunter! 

What's goin' on, Hunter?
You stayin' safe out there?  I heard you ran into some trouble, so
I ordered a little something -- the
Seregios Monster Info book! Read books, get wisdom, kill monsters,
you know?  

What's goin' on, Hunter?
I just wanna say, respect.
Respect for hunting that Seregios...  ...And respect for helpin' out the town.
It made me think, I've got to do my part
to help out too, you know?  There's a merchant I know buying
monster materials for a high price.  And right now, he's buying Black Gravios
materials for the highest price of all.
This is my chance, Hunter. With all that zenny, I could donate
to the town's restoration fund.
All I need is someone to do the hunt... Know anyone? ...Ho ho! Just kidding.
I want YOU, of course! I already spoke to the Guildmarm.
The Quest is called   " Black Rock Down ."
Do it for the town, Hunter!  

What's goin' on, Hunter?
Maximum respect for getting
those Black Gravios materials. The merchant bought 'em for a high
price, so I was able to donate a
lot to the restoration fund.  Now we're both heroes, you know?
Ho ho ho!  

What's goin' on, Hunter?
You finished The Master's Test?! Hunter, don't surprise me like that!
You're goin' to make me choke on my apple.
For real though, respect. Maximum respect.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC091 (Dundorma Armory).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC091 (Dundorma Armory).txt
SIZE: 7602 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:53:42
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 73df262f0c567079e2f4e55c7bb87b70d2413f6ca2fade16df5dd8df54f3d094
================================================================================

﻿Have a look! I'm sure you'll
find something you like. Come back soon! How about some new equipment
for the hunt with your friends?
You won't find a better deal!  Hiya, Hunter.
Welcome to the Dundorma Armory! Have a look around. We're stocked up
with all kinds of top-of-the-line goods. Hiya, Hunter.
You just HAVE to check out
the new armor set that arrived.  It's called the   High Metal S  
set! It's SOOO cool, don't you think?  You know, Hunter, you're SOOO cool,
SOOO brave, SOOO-- Huh? What makes
you think I want something?  Well, since you mention it...
I was talkin' with Little Miss
Forge, and we came up with this idea!  Since we're both in the arms business,
we thought it would be a waste not
to put our heads together...  So we decided to collaborate and
create the world's greatest hammer!  Little Miss Forge already came up
with a prototype for a cool-looking
  whale-shaped hammer . All we need now are the materials
to make it. Yup, you guessed it,
Hunter. I need your help!  Could you hunt  two Rathians  
so we can get our hands on the
materials we need?  You're the only one I trust to
deliver the materials back to
us in a good condition.  I've filed a request with the
Guildmarm called  " Killer Queens ."
Help our hammer dreams come true, Hunter!  Hiya, Hunter! Thanks for
securing those Rathian materials --
I just knew you could do it! Now we can start to make our hammer
dreams a reality...though there's still
a lot of stuff we need to work out. But I just know it's gonna be the
BEST HAMMER EVER! Hiya, Hunter! How are things?
Oh, the hammer? It's coming along well.
I just know you're going to love it...  ...Except, we've run into a teensy
weensy problem. The iron we've been
using isn't tough enough!  I did some research, and it looks like
a special iron that fell from the sky
can be found in the Dunes (day). If only there was a COOL, BRAVE hunter
to fetch it for us... Oh, you'd be up
for the challenge? I knew you would be!  Head over to the Dunes (day) and find
that  special iron  ! I've already filed the request with
the Guildmarm. It's called
 " Meteoric Prize  ."  Thanks, Hunter!
The hammer dream is still alive!  Hiya, Hunter! Thanks for securing
that special iron for us --
you really are the best!  Soon we will make the greatest hammer
the world's ever seen! There's still work
to do, but the hammer dream lives on... Hiya, Hunter! Oh, the hammer?
It's coming along nicely -- you're
gonna be blown away when you see it! ...Only, there's another teensy problem.
You see, we've been getting the
ore we need delivered from the mines...  But when a pack of  Zinogres   showed up
they had to halt all the mining. As long as those Zinogres are roaming
around Heaven's Mount, we'll never make
the hammer dream come true! If only there was someone strong enough
to get rid of them... Really? You will?
Thanks, Hunter! I knew you'd do it. I've already filed the request with
the Guildmarm. It's called
 " Hunt-a-thon: Zinogre  ."  Thanks again, and be careful! You get eaten
by those Zinogres and our hammer fantasies
will never be fulfilled. Hiya, Hunter! Thanks for getting rid of
those Zinogres for us -- you really
are the bravest!  Now we can continue making our hammer
dream a reality. There's still lots to
work out, but we won't give up, no siree!  Hiya, Hunter! I heard you
finished The Master's Test!
That's SOOO cool! You're SOOO strong! It already feels like it was such a long
time ago when you helped me and Little Miss
Forge make our hammer dreams a reality.  Time sure flies when you're chasing
your dream, doesn't it?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC092 (Dundorma).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC092 (Dundorma).txt
SIZE: 21868 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:54:30
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 54ba6b72928539bb52f68839f3b3fefa94f6009eee788a46f3a8b5db5bfc66ad
================================================================================

﻿I look forward to working with you,
good hunter. I may be occupied for a while with
 designing that defensive weapon to
stop the impending elder dragon. In the meantime, I would very much
appreciate it if you lent an ear to the
Weary Wanderer. He has taken refuge in the Assembly .
Have you dropped by there yet? With Dundorma in its current state,
I must be quick about designing that
defensive weapon. Those two smiths in your caravan will
be a boon, I am quite certain.
As will you! Ha ha. Never let good talent like that go to
waste, I always say! I have not been back to Dundorma in
some time. Even in this state, it feels
the same as ever. But to be here, on this mission, with
my old pupil... I never would have
dreamed it. Never... So the Street Cook seemed quite
eager to do something for the town. He wants you to hunt a Pink Rathian.
Have you heard? A Rathian... Hmm... My work on the weapon design is going
swimmingly, thank you. I believe it shall be a bright flame to
keep the town safe in these dark times. But at the same time, I hope the day never
comes when we must use it. Still no sign of the Research
Assistant, it seems. The Professor sent her a summons "a while
ago," but that's by Wyverian reckoning.
Who's to say how long it has truly been? I wonder what could be keeping her. The weapon design is finally complete.
Next, we need to find a fiery fuel to
power it . It has to be something intense enough to
withstand Kushala Daora's storms. I shall have to have a word with that
Wycoon of yours and see if he has
any suggestions for materials. That leaves the Wyceum.
Hunt that Seltas Queen so we can
bring the assistant here safely. I look forward to hearing what has
REALLY been keeping her. Perhaps she has been busy finding
some tea to bring us as a souvenir
from her travels? Ha ha! ...... Oh, good hunter. Pay me no mind.
I'm perfectly fine. ...... The queen's resilient flames should
hold up well against the storms the
Kushala Daora summons. Once the assistant here helps me
ascertain where a Rathian is,
I will file a Quest with your associate. However, I suspect getting a straight
answer might take a "tea-ny" bit
longer... Ha ha. The queen's resilient flames should
hold up against the fiercest storms. ...... Do me a favor and... Well, be careful
out there. Capture it and come home
safely. If anything -- anything at all -- seems
amiss, I will protect you. Weapon development continues apace,
the Wyceum is complete...
Everything is on track. Still, one bolt from the blue is all it
takes to throw the best laid plans awry.
Just one... You can trust me on that. The townsfolk were worried about you and
went to the Caravaneer to offer help. I believe they left a gift for you
with him. Make sure you stop by. Your associate should already have the
Urgent Quest from the Guild to hunt that
Seregios. Good luck. Keep a clear head and be ready
for anything. You're our only hope! About the Rathian flames... I have put my feelers out with both the
Guild and the Wycoon's associates. As soon as they locate one, I will send
the Gunner to capture it. She has a cool head, that one. I know
she'll finish the job quickly and quietly
without adding to the stir. Absolutely outstanding job on that
Seregios hunt. You remind me of... ...Never mind. Forget I said anything.
Ha ha. Master Tool has a task for you,
I am told. Your latest exploits must have left an
impression. Why don't you stop by? The Seregios has been taken care of,
but we cannot celebrate yet -- not while
the elder dragon remains a threat. And besides, we have yet to determine
what the Seregios was doing here
in the first place. ...I need some time to think. Welcome back. And well done! The Gunner has returned as well.
She succeeded in capturing the Rathian
I am truly glad you are both safe. I may need you to fetch some more
materials later -- but for now, rest. Ah yes. It seems the Gunner spotted
an Azure Rathalos. Something seemed
"off," she said. And considering how on the mark her
hunches usually are, I wonder if that's
not what we should be dealing with. She wants you to check it out.
Would you mind having a word with her? The Lancer and Cadet can handle the
Seregios investigation. You and
I need to hurry up and finish our weapon. I would appreciate it if you could hunt
that Brute Tigrex and secure the mines. I pray everyone makes it back unharmed.
My old friend, and the Cadet... And you, of course. If you hit a stumbling block while
hunting the Brute Tigrex, drop
everything and come home. There's no shame in it. Nothing matters
more than your survival. That Stygian Zinogre needs
to get hunted. You'll be going to the Volcanic Hollow.
Best of luck. We can complete the Demolisher once
we manage to harvest the Stygian
Zinogre's energy supply. Be careful out there. You're our
shining ray of hope. I look forward to shaking your hand
upon your safe return. The first thing you should do is stop by
the Wyceum . They've struck upon a means of holding
your own against frenzied monsters. I will finish up all the Quest paperwork
while you're there. You know, I heard about
the frenzied monsters. My pupil tells me you faced the source
of the Frenzy, Shagaru Magala. But if the great Wheel sleeps again,
then why are frenzied monsters
still appearing? Did Shagaru Magala leave us a
parting gift somewhere? I wonder... Well, there is little point in tossing
around theories just yet. In any case, we need to stay vigilant.
The elder dragon is still out there. I will have the Ace Hunters deal with
any frenzied monsters that try to
approach the town. Never fear. You just focus on the Brachydios hunt.
And be careful out there. Our defensive weapon is finished.
All that remains now is to make
the final calibrations. What good will all our hard work do if
the weapon cannot hit its mark,
after all? I have assembled the town's finest
technicians, and they have agreed to
work around the clock to get it done. Put your fears at rest.
We will get through this. A frenzied Deviljho... Well, so be it. All I can really
say is, "Be careful." Finish the job, and promise me you
won't get yourself hurt. The town's finest technicians are working
around the clock to finish calibrating
the defensive weapon. Don't you worry about them. If anything,
I think they're a little jealous that you
get to do all the exciting jobs. Ha ha! If you're worried about my old friend
the Lancer, don't be. I know I'm not. He's not the sort to be done in by the
likes of this situation. Well...so be it. All I can really
say is, "Be careful." Finish the job, and promise me you
won't get yourself hurt. We will go on the offensive and drive
the Kushala Daora away just as soon
as you return. Until then, my pupil and I will hold
the town. I swear it. You can count on the lad. I know him to
be a very... Never mind. Let's just say you can
trust him. I would rather keep the
"whys" to myself. Ha ha. You know, good hunter, you remind me
so much of... Never mind. Forget I said anything.
Ha ha. Hunter, let us keep this town safe
together -- you, me, the Aces, and all
the townsfolk. No elder dragon will stop us now that
we've come this far! The Ace Hunters have assembled in
the Battlequarters. They're waiting
for us. Talk to the Caravaneer when you are
ready to begin the final battle against
the Kushala Daora . Have courage! You are a ray of hope to us,
good hunter -- a constant shield behind
which the town now stands. Oh, so you'll be hunting with friends?
Be on guard out there. I look forward
to your safe return. Thank the powers that be
you made it out of that mess. The powers that be got me IN that mess,
but point taken. Good to see you, lad.
You look well. I must say, I am quite impressed with
your teamwork. When I bumped into that
Monoblos, I thought the jig was up. Hunter, I would like you to meet my
mentor, who will be acting as Dundorma's
Master of Defense. He will be in charge of  keeping the
town defended . He is a man worthy of
great respect. After all, he taught me everything
I know. Oh, so this is the hunter who took care
of that Monoblos? Well, now... Yes, I suppose it makes sense.
I see the talent... But where are my manners?
The pleasure is all mine, good hunter. Sir, I have asked this hunter to
handle errands and Quests outside of town,
seeing as the Aces must remain close. The town fortifications will be in
very good hands. You won't meet a more
trustworthy hunter. Or a better, er... A better... *mutter mutter* ...Friend. Ha! "Friend"?! Did you just use the word "friend"? Well, this IS an epoch-making moment.
I thank you, good hunter, for softening the
lad up a bit. Ha ha! S-Sir! Please. Decorum! *Sigh* Changing subjects, there is a
matter weighing upon my mind. Right up until my mentor reached
the Dunes, we had received no report of
large monster activity. Why the impeccable timing on the part
of the Monoblos? An astute question...
Based on precedent, there's one answer I
would favor over any other. It is likely something forced the monster
out of its natural habitat , causing a shift
in the ecosystem. I wonder if this is another... Never mind. I will shelve that
theory for now. Let us talk a bit about the elder dragon.
I hear we will be dealing with a
 Kushala Daora ? Yes, and you should probably
know that it had a... A scar across its face. ...... I see. Thank you for telling me. The question is what to DO about it. An elder dragon is a natural threat,
and humankind lacks the power to stop
nature from doing what it will. We need to accept what is coming and
focus our efforts instead on keeping the
town safe. We will need a defensive weapon  capable
of holding the Kushala Daora
off... Something sturdy enough to withstand
the storms it summons, at that.
That will be the first step. Agreed? Good. Then I will get right to
work on designing the weapon . I intend to enlist the help of the
artisans at your caravan's Smithy. After all, word has it they're a sort
of dream team. I'm not about to let
talent like that go to waste! Ha ha! Until the weapon design is finished, I
would appreciate you continuing to  help
out around town . Dundorma's people have all buckled
down to fortify the town. Now that I think about it, that  weary-
looking fellow mentioned he had an urgent
favor to ask of you. He has taken refuge at the Assembly .
Would you mind stopping in? ...Where is it, you ask? It's the
building with the green curtain over
there on the right. If there's nothing else, you can, er,
be on your way. Thank you, Hunter. We appreciate all
you are doing for the town. Ah, good. You're back. I have some news for you. With the help
of the artisans at your caravan's
Smithy... I have finished drafting plans for the
defensive weapon . I am quite pleased
with the design. The only problem is that we lack the
required  fuel to power it . The Kushala Daora can summon
great storms, and your average, easily-
doused flames simply won't faze it. I noticed the merchant traveling with
you has a rather, er...unique
stranglehold on the market. Don't get me wrong! I am certainly not
criticizing. In fact, I wonder if he
couldn't find us our fiery fuel. Oh, and have you spoken with
the Professor?  He wants you to hunt a Seltas Queen
and help his assistant return home. Hopefully, she'll bring some of that
wonderful tea with her. Ha ha! Oh my, I made it here in record time!
I knew there was no rush. Oh well. Maybe I'll just have one more cup of tea
and rest a spell before I dig into all
that research. That, er...sounds lovely, my dear. Now then, Hunter! Allow me to get you
up to speed. Recently, I have been searching for a
special fuel that produces rain-resistant
flames . It's for the defensive weapon. Now, the
Wycoon tells me that Rathian
flames  are a good place to start. A fine suggestion, I do believe...
Better than fine, in fact! The Rathian and Rathalos have a very
special significance in Dundorma. I can think of no better symbolic
defenders of the town. I will get started right away on
procuring Rathian flames. Oh, sir! I can help you with that,
I certainly can! While I was having tea in that village,
they mentioned a Rathian. Just the other day, it was spotted in
the Dunes. We all thought that was rather odd.
A Rathian in the Dunes!
Quite a surprise, really. But when I mentioned it to that fellow
in blue, the  Commander , he made this
really...unpleasant face. Did I say something to upset him?
Gosh... Hmm...
No, it's not your fault. We cannot afford to miss this chance.
Timely development of the weapon depends
on those flames. Hunter, I need you to  capture that
Rathian . It's now or never. Once I talk to the assistant here and
ascertain its position, I will put in a
Quest with your Guild associate. It shouldn't take long.
Just give me a little while, all right?
Thank you. Hunter, are you all right?! Whew... That was a scare. I know you must still be reeling from
the fact that we pulled you out of
the Quest, and for that I apologize. I had to make a split-second decision. You see, the monster that swooped in and
attacked that Rathian was none other
than a Seregios . I'm certain of it. There are very few even in existence.
Until now, I had only heard about them
in stories. But there's something more alarming than
the rarity of the monster, and that's
why I called you here. You see, Seregios are said to inhabit
an extremely limited area . They fight over the territory, and the
losers die as a result. That's exactly
why so few of them exist. A monster as territorial as the Seregios
has no business mucking about a place
like this. It makes no sense. Something is terribly wrong .
And honestly, it scares me. I feel like I just saw a bird swimming
underwater. ...But let's approach it scientifically.
Why would a bird start living underwater?
Because it learned how? Or because it had no choice? ...I won't jump to any conclusions, but
all of this raised enough concerns that
I had to get you out of there. Forgive me. I know Quests like that are
how you make your living. At any rate, this new threat poses a
practical problem in addition to the
theoretical ones. The sandskiffs that deliver Dundorma's
supplies have stopped running . We'll have to put the town fortifications
on hold until we deal with it. But the Seregios is a menace.
A real fighter. An average hunter wouldn't be able to
so much as scratch it. The Guild wants someone capable on the
job -- a proven hunter. That's why they've asked for you .
I'll file the Quest with your Guild
associate later. Good luck against that Seregios.
Keep a clear head and be ready for
anything. You're our only hope! ...Oh, and while the Guild is finishing
all the red tape, you should check in
with the Caravaneer . When the townsfolk heard about what
happened to you, they all went to him
to see if they could help. Stop by. It'll be worth your while. Congratulations, Hunter! Simply amazing!
I feel like shouting your praise from
the rooftops. Thanks to you, the sandskiffs are back
in operation. Supplies have already
started coming in. As for the flames we need, never fear.
The Wycoon's associates located another
Rathian. The Ace Gunner went to capture it for us.
I know she'll be just fine. Now! Let's get ourselves back on track.
We need to keep  fortifying Dundorma . The townsfolk are raring to go, and there
are plenty of ways you can help. Master Tool in particular has
been very impressed with your efforts
and wishes to pitch in. Would you mind stopping by? Thank you again, good hunter.
Let's work hard to whip Dundorma
into shape, shall we? Ha! Well done, good hunter. Well done!
How good it is to have you back! Indeed! Your safety is the true reward. But these new developments are
distressing... Another Seregios has
appeared in the Volcanic Hollow?! And not just there. According to
reports from the Dragonseer, these beasts
have been showing up all across the land. Clearly some kind of anomaly has occurred
which has changed the Seregios's habitat. I think we can say that with
certainty now. The one you encountered while trying to
capture the Rathian was just the
tip of the Barioth tusk, so to speak. In any case, they may very well attempt
to attack the town if we leave
them unchecked. We must take decisive action.
Stopgaps and cheap artifices will
not suffice. Hmm... Agreed. Which leaves us
with only one course of action. We must send the Lancer and Cadet in to
 conduct field work . Only a proper investigation will reveal
the nature of the anomaly we are
dealing with. But... But, Sir! I... Forgive me, but I must object! I cannot bring myself to send those two
into such danger. Not again! Besides, I need them in town.
We are short-handed as it is. Is that so? Well, learning to work within limits
is part of the job. Impress me with
your resourcefulness. The Lancer and His Immenseness believe
you and the hunter alone will suffice to
keep the town safe. As do I. ....... Very good, then. I will hurry and finish
the defensive weapon as swiftly
as possible. Hunter, I could use your assistance with
 gathering the materials we lack . The artisans are working faster than we
can keep them supplied with ore. I need you to hunt a Brute Tigrex
and secure the mines in Heaven's Mount. Please, have faith in me.
I assure you we are doing the right thing. Welcome home. How nice to see you. We're making good progress, one step at
a time, and that's a fine thing. Thanks to your efforts, ore delivery to
the town is back in full swing. You've
made a lot of people very happy. Now, as for your next task -- we need
help developing the  Demolisher . That's the name of the primary weapon
we'll be installing in the Battlequarters,
by the way: the Demolisher. It features a long, durable barrel capable
of firing intense Dragon energy , making it
the perfect anti-elder dragon armament. Now, all we need is an energy source.
We are thinking of using Dragon energy
from a  Stygian Zinogre . Provided we can obtain it, the
Demolisher cannon will be complete. All that will remain after that is
to calibrate it for use in battle. ...... Hard to believe, isn't it?
Dundorma's shining ray of hope. Ever since that day -- since I became
a hunter, in fact -- I have wandered
and toiled with many people. And I often believe I do it so I can savor
that magical moment after a grand battle
when I realize: YES, we made it. I live for that: to know I kept
something safe. ...... But those are just my selfish reasons!
Ha ha ha. Your Guildmarm should already have the
Quest to  hunt the Stygian Zinogre . You'll be heading to the Volcanic Hollow.
Thank you again for all your help. Deep down, I know that our true ray of
hope is standing right here in front
of me. Welcome back. I have been waiting
for you. A letter arrived not long ago from
the Lancer. Let me read it to you. "I regret to report that, while
investigating the Seregios, I
encountered another fearsome monster. "Specifically, it was a
 frenzied Deviljho . "Initially, I thought this Deviljho might
be the origin of the Frenzy outbreak,
but I now believe I was mistaken. "Deep in the Everwood, I sense the
 presence of something far more formidable . "I have decided to go into the wood's
deepest reaches and investigate. "I reported this matter to the Guild as
well, and they will no doubt ask that the
frenzied Deviljho be hunted down. "Until we next speak, my regards." Hmm... He's right about the Guild. Your associate
tells me a Quest to hunt the frenzied
Deviljho  has already arrived. But I shudder to think what could be
more terrible than that. *Sigh* For now, I will keep any theories
to myself. Hunter, it is no easy task to keep a town
like this safe. Unwanted things happen,
and plans unexpectedly go awry. Still, I always endeavor to take the best
course of action at any given time. I try to steer us through the storm with
as few losses as possible. And I can tell you, I don't regret
choosing this -- to make the defense of
others my way of life. I hope that, at the end of this, you have
no regrets either. You are our ray of hope,
Hunter. Welcome back.
You did very well. Listen, I just want to say... Well, I understand now why the lad calls
you a friend. You have this way about you that... Never mind. I talk too much.
Ha! Now then. We just  finished calibrating
the defensive weapon . I am pleased to
report that it is now fully operational. The technicians really gave it their all
despite the danger they were in, but the
Ace Hunters kept them safe. Not a single man, woman, or Felyne was
injured. I'm quite proud of that. And most importantly, you are back.
And you are safe. Rest now. You will need it before you-- ...What's that?
You don't need a break? Ha ha! The Caravaneer wasn't kidding about you.
You are a machine. I go on and on about myself, but it may
be that you've kept more people safe
than even I have. All right. It's time to go on the
offensive for a change. Let's  meet that Kushala Daora
in battle and send it back where it
came from! I will take command! With teamwork, I
know we can knock that elder dragon right
out of the sky. Ha! We will assemble in the  Battlequarters .
The Ace Hunters are already there,
in fact. Join them when you are ready. The Caravaneer will show you the way,
so speak to him  once your preparations
are complete. Then, we will begin the battle against
the Kushala Daora in earnest. May fortune smile upon you and all of
us, good hunter. The town has done a tremendous job
coming together for this one moment. I have the utmost faith in that
strength. Hope will prevail!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC093 (The Professor).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC093 (The Professor).txt
SIZE: 8212 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:54:42
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a57e9e308534e62d8379c677f090ef7871b516537e5099e2ec1fbea3765fe599
================================================================================

﻿Would you grab that Herb for me there?
Yes, that's the one. ...No-no, the other one. Why did you
hand me THIS one? Because I said so?
...Ah, so I did. Very good. Hunting with your cartners in prime?
Don't forget some Dust of Life, in the
name of friendship...and SCIENCE! Ah, master hunter! There you are!
Just the person I wanted to see.
...Hm? Er, yes.  Behold! The new and spectacular
Wyceum. At last it has been
completed, in the name of science!  Research here should commence shortly.  ...Hm? Wait, I'm forgetting something.
Some crucial puzz of the peecil. Ah! Ah yes, of course! What am
I saying? We cannot commence anything! Not without my  assistant ! She never made it to Dundorma.
I had the Dragonseer search for her,
in the name of science -- and it seems she is *gasp* HAVING TEA
*wheeze* in a small village near the
Ancestral Steppe. What gall! She sat down for tea while she was
waiting for a  Seltas Queen   on the
Ancestral Steppe to vacate the area...  But apparently the tea was so delicious,
she forgot why she was fiddling her
twingers and kept on sipping away. Master hunter, I was hoping you might
do me a favor and hunt that blasted
Seltas Queen. Because without my assistant, I fear
research here will NEVER commence... IN THE NAME OF SCIENCE! Ah, master hunter! There you are!
Just the herson I was poping might
stroll in. ...Hm? Er, yes. Listen to this: Here at the Wyceum,
we are researching a  new item  ,
in the name of science! However, we seem to have reached a bit
of an impasse JUST shy of our goal --
a wicky sticket, if you will.  We need a very specific material, but
some dangerous monsters are sitting RIGHT
smack on top of it. Terrible, really. And certainly *I* cannot stop them.
I'd be mangled to bloody bits!  Could you gather the materials in
my stead? I assure you, the fruits of the
research will benefit you directly. The Quest I filed with the Guild is called
"  Advanced: Risky Research  ."  Be a good hunter and undertake it host
paste...in the NAME OF SCIENCE!  Master hunter! I see you came through
with flying colors. You have my
dappest greetitude. You see this? Thanks to you, we have
managed to invent  Disposable Earplugs . They are already on store shelves!
Go have a look.  Unfortunately, they are a bit tricky
to put together, so we can only make a
limited quantity at a time. We'll beef up the supply while you're
out hunting. I hope you enjoy them,
in the name of science! Well done, master hunter. I see you
made short work of the Master of
Defense's so-called "test." Ha!  I do hope that the fruits of our research
played some small role in this grand
achievement. ...Hm? Er, yes. Oh, and I hope you will continue to
support our endeavors here...in the
name of SCIENCE!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC094 (Research Assistant).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC094 (Research Assistant).txt
SIZE: 7979 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:54:54
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 9e3646d6a77da4dd38d6c4b10be6703af5576a8b3a3099d5a4ce562dddd84d3a
================================================================================

﻿So, what can I help you with? Thanks! You come again now. The greenery looks super today.
No sign of the blues, and it certainly
ain't yeller! Ha ha. Color humor.  Anyway, I hope you have a super day, too,
and don't turn purple or anything.  Oh, look at you! You have friends!
That's just super. Don't forget to pick up some Dust of
Life. It's pretty much MADE for group
hunts, it certainly is!  Oh, well hello! Welcome to the
 Wyceum  . Here we research all kinds of fascinating
items, we certainly do! In fact, we have two beauties you can
use right now: this   Portable Steam Bomb ,
and this here   Dust of Life  . The Portable Steam Bomb purges you of
all kinds of nasty abnormal statuses -- Poison, Paralysis, Stun, Sleep,
Blastblight, Stench, and gosh, who knows
how many others. Isn't that super? Using it expels a cloud of steam.
All you have to do is touch the steam!
Easy peasy. Friends can share it, too! As for the Dust of Life: it's like
Lifepowder, but recovers more Health.  Anyway, we plan to keep cranking out more
handy items, we certainly do. You just keep those eyes tuned and
those ears peeled, alrighty? Oh, well hello!
Welcome to the Wyceum.
I've got special news today! We made a breakthrough in our Frenzy
research, and we are just SUPER pleased to
put   Wystones   on the market. Wystones basically do two things: While active, the effect they have on your
weapon can temporarily   turn frenzied
monsters back to a normal state . Effects from the Frenzy are
  all nullified . That's one thing. The other thing Wystones
do is grant a specific   bonus effect  . ...You want examples? Alrighty.
Right now, you have two choices.  Wystones that can help  suppress damage  you
take from frenzied monster attacks, OR...  Wystones that can help  increase the damage
you deal to frenzied monsters. I know, I know: "How does it work???"
you ask with multiple question marks.
Easy peasy. Select the type of Wystone you want
to use right here from the Wyceum, and that
will equip it. Easy, huh? You'll then be able to use it on Quests
just like any other item. However, once you use one, you'll need
to allow it a  cooldown period  before
you can use it again. Best to save it for the right moment,
if you ask little old me! Heh heh.  And that's all she wrote. Enjoy!  Oh, well hello!
Welcome to the Wyceum.
I've got wonderful news today! We've hit a breakthrough in our
Frenzy research. Basically, we figured
out a way to   power up Wystones . With these, you should be able to
  return frenzied monsters to normal  
easier than ever!  And that's all she wrote.
Go ahead and give it a try! Oh, well hello!
Welcome to the Wyceum.
I've got exciting news today!  We made a quantum leap in our
Frenzy research. Now you can
choose Wystones with   new bonuses . Specifically, we're offering two
new types: One makes   elemental and status
attacks effective   against
Apex monsters. (Ooh! Aah!) Don't you just feel all tingly
imagining yourself poisoning and
paralyzing an Apex monster? The other type prevents your
weapon from being deflected when hitting
an Apex monster's armored parts.  Use the effects of the new Wystones well and
you should see some serious "up" in
your "game," as the cool kids say. Which is to say you'll have an
easier time hunting. And that's all
she wrote! Enjoy!  Oh, well hello!
Welcome to the Wyceum.
I've got astounding news today!  We've hit upon the mother lode of
Frenzy research. Are you ready
for this?  Now you can imbue your weapon with
 TWO Wystone bonuses instead of one  !
(Ooh! Aah!) And that's not all. We've put a couple
brand-spanking new items on the market.
Go science!  The first is  Garrison Bllsta Ammo  .
It's for exclusive use in the
Battlequarters. With it, you can fire super-powered
shots from all the Ballistae there.
Cowabunga!  ...Sorry. That was me using cool-speak.
The OTHER new item is   Dense Marcoal .
This one's for the Battlequarters, too. You'll need Dense Marcoal to fire the
  Demolisher   located in Area 3 of
the B-quarters there. And that's all she wrote.
Go ahead and give them a try! Oh, well hello!
Welcome to the Wyceum.
I've got some happy news today!  We've put a new item on the market.
We call them  Disposable Earplugs . Disposable Earplugs will NULLIFY A
MONSTER ROAR or LOUD SCREAMING AAAH,
like what I just did. But only once!  And that's all she wrote.
Go ahead and give them a try!
...Hello? Can you hear me?  Oh! Hunter. I heard the good news,
I certainly did! You blasted through The Master's
Test like a champ, you
certainly did!  Now that you're all amazing, you
should take a break from hunting now
and then and stare at flowers with me.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC095 (Dundorma Guard).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC095 (Dundorma Guard).txt
SIZE: 3160 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:55:16
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 385548022f0ea19e5a6c59ca2273582bdec44736a90dee4f8ce8c60d7b34319c
================================================================================

﻿Halt! This is the hall of
His Immenseness!  Only those of sufficient rank
may enter. Turn back around!  

Ahead lies the hall of His
Immenseness. Do not forget your
manners while inside!  

Ahead lies the hall of His
Immenseness. I have heard word of
your good deeds. You may pass. Do not forget to pay
your respects to His Greatness.  

Departing on a Quest with your
comrades? I bid you all good
luck in your endeavor.  

*Grumble grumble*
This could not have come at a worse
time... Oh! Good day, Hunter. I apologize if
I seemed withdrawn. I was lost in
my thoughts. ...Could you spare a minute to
listen to an old story?  Many years ago, a   Yian Garuga
found its way to these parts.  Due to the monster's rarity,
hunters from all around Dundorma
set out to catch sight of it. I, of course, was one of them. But to my
disappointment, I was not fortunate enough
to witness the creature myself. However, as luck would have it,
it has shown itself again after
all these years!  Unfortunately, given the nature of my
position, I am not at liberty to pursue
the monster myself. I have sworn an oath to guard the
Elder Hall and cannot leave my post.  Hunter... would you find the
creature in my stead?  If I cannot see it with my own eyes,
I would at least like to hear of its
magnificence. I trust you will share tales of
your encounter with the beast
upon your return. I have filed a request with the
Guildmarm. It's called
 " Hunting Vicariously ."  I am in your debt, Hunter.  

Well? Did you see it?
The Yian Garuga?  ...You did! Magnificent!
Please, tell me, what was
it like? ...Yes...Mmm-hmm...
...Sonic roar, you say?
...A poisonous tail? Fascinating!  It sounds more fearsome than I'd
ever imagined! I hope that one day I'm
lucky enough to see the beast for myself! If you happen to encounter the beast
again, you will tell me all about it,
won't you? 

Magnificent work, Hunter!
No doubt tales of your exploits
will be told all over the land! I trust you will continue to help
us protect this city in its time
of need.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC096 (His Immenseness).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC096 (His Immenseness).txt
SIZE: 22230 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:42:06
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: f6f08cc5270cad2bddc93c83f83f2659807a6106ef2cdc7abd5f7e301c0c61e0
================================================================================

﻿The Elder Hall serves as a place
from which to govern Dundorma... but also as a hub from which proud
hunters may embark on Quests.  Are you a proud hunter? If so, then
you must keep at it day after day.  The Elder Hall serves as a place
from which to govern Dundorma... but also as a hub from which proud
hunters may embark on Quests.  Are you a proud hunter? If so, then
you must keep at it day after day.  ...And that is all I have to report,
Your Immenseness.  So you say your team encountered
a  frenzied Seregios  in the deepest reaches
of the Everwood... Hrm... We believe that the other Seregios left
their natural habitat and spread to other
regions because they were FORCED out... Forced out by that frenzied
Seregios. Hrm... Fascinating! Then we will assemble
a party to eradicate it as soon as the
town's fortifications are complete.  Matter resolved. Next!  Er, just a moment, Your Immenseness.
There's something strange about all this.  The lone Seregios I encountered was
exceptionally tough. It was able to create
clouds of Frenzy at will.  That was no sick monster. It was almost
as though the Seregios had been
  reborn as something else  . ...Hrm? Clouds of Frenzy? Sounds to me like we're dealin' with
an   Apex monster  ...
This is worse than I thought. Beg yer pardon, Your Immenseness, but ya
need to send in a team of hunters to
thwack that thing ASAP! Really? And why is that?  The Academy has been tossin' around this
hypothesis about the Frenzy and
how its symptoms affect monsters.  Ordinarily, specimens with the Frenzy
don't last long before they kick
the bucket.  But what if there are monsters that
manage to   overcome the virus  ? Well, the Academy examined enough real-
life cases to determine it's more than
just a "what if."  They decided to call these monsters
  Apex   forms. What that means, essentially, is that
the Frenzy wasn't able to kill our
Seregios.  Instead, it transformed it into
one   flying, tough-as-toenails contagion . But...but that's terrible!
We can't deal with something like that
at a time like this!  The Dragonwatch just upgraded our
warning level to red! That  Kushala Daora with the scar
on its face  is about to make a move! We need to buckle down and focus on
defending the town, not send our hunters
AWAY to deal with some science experiment! The Kushala Daora is...
It's coming back? But we cannot afford to ignore
the Seregios...  My good Aces, I order both of you to
remain here in Dundorma and
defend her.  But... But sir, we--  As you command, Your Immenseness. Right then.
Never fear, lad. We have no cause
for distress. But Sir! Of course we do! Bah! What comes between B and D and
takes down monsters for a living?
The Capital C's hunter, that's what!  What better weapon to launch at this
latest monster menace than our walking
ray of hope here? Har! Well said! Apex shmapex! That brute's no match
for my Kindred Hunter. Har har! Your Immenseness, he is right.
The Caravan's hunter is reliable, and has
saved us from more than one crisis.  Well, any individual who has won over
the Ace Hunters, a Scholar, and the
Master of Defense MUST be worth something!  Harrumph. Very well. I trust this task
with you!  Hunter, the Elder Hall hereby
issues you the following Quest: Hunt down that Seregios and put an
end to its terror! I wish I could face this critical
situation with you, but as you heard,
my duties lie here, with Dundorma.  But promise me -- PROMISE ME
you will return safely.  Right then. Now that the meeting's over,
let's mosey back out to the commons and
let the others know what's transpirin'.  Harrumph! Young hunter, on behalf of all
of us, I welcome you to the Elder Hall.  Upon my obviously broad shoulders rests
the great task of running the town
of Dundorma. I endeavor to protect her from the
calamities beyond her walls and ensure
her days remain joyful and prosperous.  Now then. On to the matter at hand. The Guildmaster has written from
Val Habar and informed me that you
have successfully hunted an Ukanlos.  Bravo! I would like to award you with
this  G1& Permit  . This token is the only qualification you
need to begin  G-rank Quests . G-rank Quests are brutal; they will pit
you against colossal monsters beyond
reckoning. Time and again, you will be lain flat and
curse the heavens for burdening you with
such arduous tasks.  But with each success, you will take
another step down the road to glory.
And I do firmly believe you will succeed. To learn more about G-rank Quests, you
should speak with the  lady behind the
Quest Counter  on the left. Good luck, young hunter. I look forward
to each of your magnificent hunts
to come!  Harrumph! Young hunter, I would first like
to applaud you for all your marvelous
achievements to date.  With each success, you have shown us a
glimpse of the greatness that lies within
you. You're going places! I can sense it!  But I don't want to just sense it.
I need to KNOW it. This is why I am issuing you an
  Urgent Quest  .
Your job will be to hunt a  Seregios  . The Seregios is a dangerous mark
that attacks with evolved scales and
powerful legs.  If you complete this Quest, I personally
guarantee it will open new doors to you
as a hunter. Speak with the  Quest Counter attendant
to find out the details. Good luck, young hunter.
I wish you a safe and glorious return! Harrumph! Splendid job hunting
that Seregios. Truly splendid! You have proven yourself more than capable
of attempting  G2& Quests  . Take this   G2& Permit   to make
it official! Greater dangers and greater glory lie
ahead of you, young hunter. You will need to apply yourself harder
than ever. Best of luck! Harrumph? Oh, it's you.
Forgive me. I was just reminiscing. Perhaps you might oblige an old man as
he dusts off an old story, yes?  ...Thank you. The story is about a
 Dragonator  , as it happens.  Since antiquity, these lands have been
infested by all manner of fierce
monsters -- even elder dragons. To prepare her for this harsh environment,
Dundorma's designers wove two
defensive measures into her construction.  One was the Battlequarters, which were
created as a last line of defense for
the town.  The other was the world's   first
Dragonator  , which was considered the
pinnacle of that era's technology. The town was but a newborn babe, and
the Dragonator her sole defender.
But defend her it did, time and again. Naturally, today's Dragonators are far
superior in terms of power.  However, to the people of Dundorma,
none can hold a candle to that first one,
with which we carved our place in history.  It was Dundorma's heart: the
courage that steeled her against every
trial and tribulation.  But the first Dragonator vanished one day
during the time of our forefathers. One moment it was in the weapon cache,
and the next -- gone.  How they searched! But they never figured
out where it went, or why. It haunted my
predecessor to the very end. What manner of monster could steal our
very heart? *sniff*  Harrumph! Excuse me. I did not intend
to sink so far into sentiment.
Must be old age! I thank you for listening to my tale,
and encourage you to focus on the future,
not dwell on the past as I do.  Good luck, young one. May your every
hunt end in success! Harrumph! Young hunter, your exploits
continue to leave me wide-eyed. I sense you are ready for the next level.
That is why I have decided to give
you another  Urgent Quest  . Your objective...will be to eliminate a
  Gore Magala ! Clearly, however, this Gore Magala is
different from others of its kind.  Even our most experienced observers
spoke of it with trembling hands. They called it  "unnatural"  --
too freakish to be grouped in with
other living things. I wish you luck, young hunter.
But be on guard out there. Ah, yes, and before I forget: One of
the  Guard Captains   wished
to speak with you.  If it's not too much trouble, would you
mind hearing him out? Who-hoa! Spectacular work eradicating
that Gore Magala! I told you doors would open for you if
you did -- and by golly, it WILL be so!
Take this  G3& Permit  . With this, I bestow upon you the right
to undertake   G3& Quests  . By the by, have you heard how firepowder
has been disappearing across the land, with
trails of black ooze the only evidence?  It seems there has been a sharp increase
in the number of incidents.  At first, I assumed they were tall tales,
the stuff of small border villages.
But like a plague, they spread... And here we are. Not long ago, a
trail of black ooze was discovered in
the grasslands not far from here.  The town guard reported that the
long trail stretched out toward this
very town.  I will be honest with you. I haven't
the slightest inkling what could have
left it. Something harmless, perhaps...  Or perhaps not. These developments leave
me with a deep feeling of unease, as if
destiny stalks inexorably our way. Hunter, I promise to alert you as soon
as I know anything more. In the meantime, it might be best if
you hone your skills. I sense no amount
of preparation will be too much... Ah, young hunter! I have urgent news!
Listen closely. The Dragonwatch's most recent
report indicates an   unknown elder dragon  
is approaching Dundorma! The towering colossus reeks of  firepowder  
and its toughened flesh drips with a
sticky  black ooze  . Not even folk tales mention an elder
dragon this strange, let alone the
Dragonwatch's records!  And I haven't even gotten to the
shocking part yet. Stuck to the back of
the beast, mired in that awful ooze... is none other than the  first Dragonator  
which vanished from Dundorma!  Can you believe it? That mighty weapon
saved our town time and again, and now
that...that THING has it pointed at US! The Guild has named the elder dragon
as   Gogmazios  and ordered us to use all
available resources to dispatch it.  In response to this, the town guard has
managed to lure the creature into the
  Battlequarters  . However, while they have
been doing all in their power,
the situation grows dire. I believe this matter should be handled
by our most trusted hunter. And that
would be you, young one. You have as tough a spirit as any
I've met. I believe you can rid us of Gogmazios
and recover my forefathers'
beloved Dragonator. You can bring this town peace.  Luck be with you, young hunter. I believe
you will succeed in this gargantuan task! Who-ho-HOA! You eliminated Gogmazios!
Tremendous, simply tremendous!  Young hu-- I mean, VALIANT hunter.
I thank you, and I salute you! I know Dundorma's forefathers
would be filled with joy if they could
see this.  Harrumph! As the town's true defender,
I believe you are now worthy of this
  G-rank Special Permit . Go on, take it! As its bearer, you are now eligible to
take on Quests even more challenging than
the G3& Quests.  I'm talking about the highest-tier Quests
the Elder Hall can offer you. ...I will tell our children and grand-
children of what you achieved here.
Right to my dying breath!  I have another gift for you -- this one
more personal.  This  Aged Text  is one of many like it --
one of the Elder Hall's most prized treasures. As you must know, the world still teems
with mysterious and unknown monsters.
Gogmazios was but one of them.  Well, the texts contain prophecies
as to when and where those monsters
will appear. In other words, if you can  decipher   them,
you might get the chance to hunt
  rare and mysterious monsters  ! But one thing at a time. There are still
 plenty of monsters   already out there
for you to set your sights on. Hunt them, and I suspect this text
will start to reveal its secrets to you. Of course, only the monsters you face
on the  most challenging Quests  will
unlock the prophecies.  If you want to know how close you are
to cracking the text's secrets and
revealing the mystery monsters,  simply examine the text under your
Guild Card's   Awards  . I wish you the best of luck with it,
valiant hunter. No doubt you'll have
the case cracked before I can sneeze. After all, you are the mighty hunter
who defeated Gogmazios!
Hip hip...harrumph!  Who-hoa! What luck! You managed to
decipher the first Aged Text?! Hrm... It appears to be entitled
"  Aged Roaring  ."  And look! It contains a prophecy about
a  Molten Tigrex ! The Tigrex is known for its
ferocity. A rare variant would have to
be a menace beyond measure!  Well, valiant hunter. You've proven
you've got fangs and talons of your own.
Take this! It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Roaring)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 hunt the  Molten Tigrex ! Now then. I believe it is time to
present you with the next text.
This will be your second. Decipher it, and yet another amazing
monster may await! There are more texts, of course.
I look forward to the day I can
present them each to you.  But you have to survive that long
first, valiant hunter. Good luck
out there! Who-hoa! What talent! You managed to
decipher the second Aged Text?!  Aha, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Power  ."  Oh, look. It contains a prophecy about an
  Akantor . And it goes on to liken the elder dragon
to a god: one with whom "only a handful
of hunters have been given an audience." Well, valiant hunter. You're ready to
dish out a little divine heat of your own,
right? Take this!  It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Power)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 eliminate the   Akantor ! Now then. Here is a new text
for you -- your third, I believe?  I know you will succeed with this
one as well. Best of luck!  Who-hoa! What a miracle! You managed
to decipher the third Aged Text?!  Hrm, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Blade  ."  Fascinating. This time, the prophecy is
about a   Seregios  ... Hrm? This bit here looks like it was
written in haste: "Ultimate adversary.
Apex of perfection."  If they went through the trouble of
writing that, then this is definitely no
ordinary Seregios. Well, valiant hunter. You're pretty
sharp yourself. And what's an Apex got
on YOUR pecs? Here, take this. It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Blade)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 hunt the  Apex Seregios ! Now then. The time has come to present
the fourth text to you.  Let's see if you can impress me
yet again, hrm? Good luck!  Who-hoa! What a triumph! You managed
to decipher the fourth Aged Text?! Hrm, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Chaos  ."  Ooh... The prophecy is about a
 Gore Magala ! And not just any Gore Magala.
Remember the really freaky one you saw
on that Urgent Quest?  It says THIS monster will make all
others of its kind look tame!  Well, valiant hunter. You've already
walked the wild side of chaos more than
once. Take this! It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Chaos)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 hunt the  powerful Gore Magala  ! Now then. I present you with the
fifth text.  New horizons await you if you manage
to decipher it. Good luck! Who-hoa! What prowess! You managed to
decipher the fifth Aged Text?!  Hrm, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Sword  ."  The prophecy is about...
Let's see here... Ah yes.
A  Shah Dalamadur  . Oh my! Val Habar's Guildmaster would
find this fascinating, wouldn't he?  Well, valiant hunter. Show 'em who's on
top of Speartip Crag now, eh? Take this!  It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Sword)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 eliminate   Shah Dalamadur  ! Now then. Allow me to present you with
a new text -- the sixth already! The path ahead will be longer and
more cruel than ever, but I believe you
will make it. Good luck!  Who-HOA! What an achievement! You managed
to decipher the sixth Aged Text?! Hrm, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Pride  ."  Oh dear. This text prophesies the
coming of a   Rajang  ! This monster is described as having
"risen to the apex" of its kind.  That sounds rather dreadful, doesn't it?
Best go it prepared. Well, valiant hunter. You've shown you
can manage a lion's share of danger.
Take this!  It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Pride)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 hunt the  Apex Rajang ! Now then. Here is the next text --
the seventh. I must say, I am quite
moved by how far we've come! But you are far too busy to reminisce
with me, aren't you? Full speed ahead!
Good luck, valiant hunter. Who-HOA! What alacrity! You managed to
decipher the seventh Aged Text?! Aha, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Crusher  ."  Hrm? Oh... Oh my word. Are you ready for
this? It speaks of a   rare
Raging Brachydios  ! Up until now, the existence of a rare
Brachydios subspecies was mere
speculation. But it's real!  Well, valiant hunter. You've shown mastery
of blastery before. Take this! It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Crusher)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 hunt the rare   Raging Brachydios ! Now then. The next text: good old
number eight! You've made it a long
way, valiant hunter.  Still, much lies ahead. Are you up to
the task? I believe so. Good luck!  Who-HOA! What good fortune! You managed to
decipher the eighth Aged Text?!  Aha, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Destroyer  ."  Let's have a read... Huh? Wh-what?!
It prophesies the coming of an
 Ukanlos ! The "white god" Ukanlos is the
"black god" Akantor's rival.
This one's stepping right out of fable! Well, valiant hunter. You don't look
like you're about to freeze up now.
Take this! It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Destroyer)  .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 eliminate the   Ukanlos ! Now then. Ready for another text?
Here comes number nine. If we're not careful, you might rob the
world of every last mystery! But take
care out there nonetheless. Good luck!  Who-HOA! What providence! You managed to
decipher the ninth Aged Text?! Aha, I see... It appears to be entitled
" Aged Pike ."  Uh-huh... Right... Mm-hmm... WHAT?!
It says   Gogmazios  is coming! What is it about Gogmazios and
our town?! Harrumph! My forefathers would
have loved to see you kick its behind! Well, valiant hunter. You're the pride of
Dundorma, and nothing can change that.
Take this! It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Pike) .
This will let you undertake a Quest to
 eliminate   Gogmazios ! Now then. The tenth text. I cannot
believe the time has come to give it
to you. Remember, a new hunt is like walking
through a new door: You never know what
may be waiting. Good luck! Who-HOA! What heroism! You managed to
decipher the tenth Aged Text?!  Aha! It appears to be entitled
"  Aged Crimson  ."  And it says... *gasp*
......  It says that a  Fata  -- Oh dear. Honestly, all the texts you've
deciphered have been surprising, but this
one knocks the words right out of me.  Well, valiant hunter. I wouldn't want the
fate of the world hanging on anyone else's
shoulders. Take this!  It's a  Deciphering Medal (Aged Crimson)  . I hope you are good and ready, because...
this will let you undertake a Quest to
 hunt the  Fatalis . Whew....  Now then. At long last, the time has
come to hand you the last of the
ancient texts. What could it foretell?  Go out there and find out, valiant hunter,
but promise me you will return safely.
Best of luck. Who-HO-HO-HOOOA! What... What...
What WORD could possibly describe this?!
You deciphered the last Aged Text?  Hrm, I see. Fascinating... It appears to
be entitled "  Finality  ."  Let's see... Ah yes, very good.
Just the kind of satisfying conclusion
I'd hope for!  What's that? You want to know what
the Quest is? Well, you'll just have
to find out first hand! You're a legend in the making, and a
maker of legends. And that means you
deserve this! It's a  Deciphering Medal (Finality)  .
You should be proud of yourself.  I have always had faith in you, but never
did I imagine you would come so far --
that you would decipher ALL the texts! Your name shall be one of the most
glorious parts of Dundorma's history.
Generations will speak of you! Fine work, valiant hunter.
And congratulations!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC097 (G-Questatrix).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC097 (G-Questatrix).txt
SIZE: 12174 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:55:48
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: fcf2a453e162e1299f6b7134e5a5226c5343eb4d00815a5302b31930f8aa8a90
================================================================================

﻿Here are the Quests.  Until next time.  This is embarrassing...
It looks like you don't
have enough money, Hunter.  Nice try, Hunter.
But you're not eligible for that one. The Departure Gate is on the
right side of the hall.  Do you want me to cancel
the current Quest? Okay, Quest canceled. Let me know
when you're ready for another one.  Okay, I'll leave things as is then. Here's what we've got for you.  This Quest has no fee.
Put your zenny away. Okay, that'll be  z.  Try not to get eaten. Okay, canceled. Got cold feet?  Have you spoken to His
Immenseness yet?
...You should. We can talk later. Invalid Message Have you spoken to His
Immenseness yet?
...You should. We can talk later. Good day, Hunter.
Oh, I'm afraid preparations for the
Urgent Quest aren't complete yet. I think   Guard Captain  over
there had something he wanted to talk to
you about. Why don't you go see what he wants? I'll
get this Urgent Quest prepared in the
meantime.  Good day, Hunter.
This is the G-rank Quest Counter. Visit the Gathering Hall in Val Habar
for High-rank and Low-rank Quests.  Good day, Hunter.
You must be the one that was recently
cleared for G-rank Quests, correct? I am the G-rank Questatrix. I will
provide you with...yes, that's right,
G-rank Quests. Now then, before you dash off on your
first Quest, I need to go over a
few things with you. As with High-rank Quests, you may not
always start at base camp.  Also, the Guild cannot guarantee all your
Supply Items at the beginning of the Quest.
So far this should all be familiar. But these are G-rank Quests, and they
aren't named so without reason. In G-rank Quests, you'll face the most
terrible monsters to ever walk this land.  You need to be two times as prepared and
three times as careful. Fail to prepare and
it could end up costing you your life. And remember: This counter is only
for  G-rank Quests . You cannot undertake
High-rank or Low-rank Quests from here.  You will need to go to the Gathering
Hall in Val Habar for those. The opposite is also true: Don't go
asking the girls at the Gathering Hall
in Val Habar for G-rank Quests.  Got it? Oh, and one last thing. The
Departure Gate for G-rank Quests is on
the right side of the Elder Hall.  And that's about it.
Now that you're up to speed, are
you ready for some questing?  Bored, Hunter? How about a story then?
I call this one,   " The Mystery of the
Missing Firepowder ."  This is true story that happened not too
long ago in a quiet mountain village.  The village is known for its
mining and even produces ores
used in the manufacture of Dragonators.  Some ores are embedded in rock
so strong that pickaxes are useless.
Do you know how they extract the ore? That's right: They use  firepowder  . This particular village kept their
barrels of firepowder in a storage
building outside the mines. But one morning, the miners woke
to find all of the barrels gone,
disappeared, vanished.  What's even more strange, the storage
building had been splattered with
some sort of sticky, viscous liquid.  Many believe it's some kind of curse...
Perhaps a grudge from the mountain for
being picked and blasted at for so long. Personally, I think something bigger is
at play. What do you make of it, Hunter?  Hunter!
You've received an  Urgent Quest  
from His Immenseness.  If I'm not mistaken, this is your first
Elder Hall Urgent Quest, is it not? And what an Urgent Quest it is.
You've been tasked with hunting a Seregios. There's something to be extra
careful of when hunting Seregios:
their razor-sharp scales. If you're careless, you could be
afflicted with Bleeding, which would
put you at a serious disadvantage.  I know this Quest may seem daunting,
but succeed and you'll attain clearance
for  G2& Quests  . But you need to be the one to initiate
the Quest to get the clearance, understood?  Okay then. Good luck, Hunter.
And watch out for those scales! My congratulations on a successful Seregios
hunt. You now have clearance to undertake
  G2& Quests  . ...But don't get TOO confident and charge
into these Quests without thinking.
Preparation is vital if you want to survive.  I don't want to crush your enthusiasm, but
I've seen many hunters bite the dust
because of their carelessness.  Find hunter friends that you can count on.
Looking out for one another is the best
chance you have of making it back alive. Hunter!
You've received another   Urgent
Quest   from His Immenseness.  This time, you're to hunt a Gore Magala.
I don't have to tell you about THAT
monster, do I? Well, maybe I do... According to the latest Dragonwatch report,
the Gore Magala that's appeared on Heaven's
Mount is different than the others. There's no telling what sort of power
it's packing. Keep your guard up out
there, Hunter. If you're successful, you'll attain
clearance for   G3& Quests  . And I have plenty of those that
need completing, so make it back
in once piece, will you? My congratulations, Hunter.
You now have clearance to undertake
  G3& Quests  . Not many hunters have made it this far;
you should be proud.  I know this may seem obvious, but these
Quests are even more dangerous. Keep that
in mind when you're out in the field. By the way, have you felt any strange
vibes around the town lately? I have this feeling that we're all being
watched by something. Oh, I'm sure it's just
my imagination. Forget I said anything. So, how about those new G3& Quests? Hunter!
His Immenseness has informed me of your
latest  Urgent Quest  . That elder dragon came out of nowhere with
a first-generation Dragonator protruding from
its back... I've never seen anything like it.  The   Demolisher   should
prove useful to you.
...Have you not heard of it, Hunter? The Demolisher is a weapon built into
the Battlequarters for intercepting
elder dragon attacks. The only thing is, the cannon itself
requires special fuel to fire. Last I heard, The Professor from the
Wyceum was looking into coming up with
a formula. He might have it done by now.  Take care out there, Hunter. I have plenty
of Quests waiting to be initiated, so don't
get yourself eaten out there, okay?  ...!
It's a relief to see you're safe, Hunter.  I honestly didn't know if you'd make it back
after facing Gogmazios.  I guess that would make you...hmm,
 higher than G3& ? I don't know what to call it because no
one's ever made it this far. You might
be called a living legend, Hunter. Just try to keep it that way. The living
part, at least. Without you, I wouldn't
have anyone to send out on Quests. Speaking of which... How about another? Good day, Hunter.
It appears you've been cleared for
 G-rank Expeditions  . They say you can find rarer Relics than
you do on normal Expeditions. ...Did I pique your interest? You can
initiate them from the  World Map .
Be sure to prepare. My congratulations on
deciphering "Aged Roaring." A Quest called
 " The Sky Is Falling  "
is now available. It looks like the Aged Text mentions
a Molten Tigrex. It's a very rare breed
that's only been seen a handful of times.  ...Have I aroused your curiosity?
The Quest is ready when you are.  My congratulations on
deciphering "Aged Power." A Quest called
 " Advanced: Dark Domination "
is now available. This one sees you up against an
Akantor. You'll find it in its
natural habitat of   Ingle Isle  . Be aware that the isle is scorching hot,
so make sure you have plenty of Cool
Drinks available. The Quest is ready when you are.  My congratulations on
deciphering "Aged Blade." A Quest called
 " Advanced: 1,001 Shards  "
is now available. The text speaks of an " extreme threat  ,"
whatever that means. I have faith you'll
figure it out.  Be on your guard just in case.
The Quest is ready when you are. You deciphered another text, Hunter?
Which one was it this time? Ah, "Aged
Chaos"? My congratulations.  Thanks to your hard work, a Quest called
 " Advanced: Wings of Woe  " is now available. The text speaks of a Gore Magala
of   unyielding strength . I would treat this as if it's a monster
you've never faced before. You don't know
what this Gore Magala can do. Prepare yourself, Hunter. My congratulations on deciphering
"Aged Sword." A Quest called
 " Advanced: Eternal Emperor "
is now available. According to the text, this Shah Dalamadur
was feared as a symbol of life and death.  It's possible it was worshipped as some
sort of god in ancient times. Think you have what it takes to hunt
a god, Hunter? I guess there's only
one way to find out. My congratulations on
deciphering your sixth text.  A Quest called
 " Advanced: Beyond Brawn  "
is now available. The Rajang the text speaks of is feared
as an   extreme climber ,
whatever that means.  You had best prepare
for the worst. After all, Rajang are known to be very
formidable monsters to begin with,
as I'm sure you already know. The Quest is ready when you are.  Congratulations on deciphering "Aged
Crusher," Hunter. That's one more to cross
off the list. A Quest called
 " Advanced: Achy Brachy Heart "
is now available. The text warns of the   slime
of this Brachydios.  I would assume this species' slime is
somehow more dangerous than its cousin's. Try not to get too slimy out there. Congratulations on deciphering
"Aged Destroyer," Hunter. That makes eight.  Thanks to your hard work, a Quest called
 " Advanced: Silver Cataclysm  "
is now available. It looks like your prey this time is the
legendary Ukanlos, known and feared as
"The White God."  But you don't fear gods, do you, Hunter?
The Quest is ready when you are. Congratulations on deciphering "Aged
Pike," Hunter. There can't be too many of
these texts left.  Thanks to your hard work, a Quest called
 " Advanced: Act of Gog  " is now available. It seems the Gogmazios mentioned in the text
gets more aggressive when it runs out of
firepowder to feed on.  ...I think that fact is still fresh in the
minds of the people of Dundorma. Just say the word and I'll send you
on your way, Hunter.  Congratulations on deciphering
"Aged Crimson," Hunter. Are you not weary? Anyway, thanks to your hard work, a Quest
called  " Advanced: A Final Battle Cry  "
is now available. Your next objective is to slay  Fatalis.   Yes,
you heard me right. This legendary elder
dragon will make for a legendary hunt, no? Most hunters live their whole lives without
catching sight of this beast. Consider
yourself lucky in that regard. The Quest is ready when you are, Hunter.  Congratulations, Hunter.
You deciphered "Finality." I expect this shall be the last
Aged Text Quest. It's called
 " Advanced: Monster Hunter! ."  According to the text...a number of monsters
will appear at a certain location after
certain conditions are met.  ...Well, it doesn't get more ambiguous
than that, does it? Sounds like a Quest
only you'd be able to figure out.  I wonder which monsters the text speaks
of, exactly.  Well, what are you waiting for?



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC098 (Guild Store Lady).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC098 (Guild Store Lady).txt
SIZE: 3656 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:56:06
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 6befe9c683738ee77b316b59f7d3f6d239fb1ae6e12090b5f3df9eaac4134aa3
================================================================================

﻿Let me know if you need anything. 

Thank you, Hunter. Come back soon.  

As a sign of appreciation to
hard-working hunters such as yourself,
all items are half price today. 

Welcome, Hunter.
A word of advice: Only bring items that
are absolutely necessary on a Quest. It would be a shame if you found rare
materials but didn't have any room
for them in your Item Pouch. 

Welcome, Hunter. Is this your first
visit to the Elder Hall Guild Store?  Much like other stores, we sell items
to help hunters.  I also carry rare Monster Info
books that you might find
useful.  I get new stock regularly, so stop
by and have a look from time to time!  

"Welcome, Hunter.
We just got some new Monster
Info books in stock. Personally, I'd recommend ""Neopterons.""
Vol 2 and Vol 3 are especially popular
as gifts!" 

Welcome, Hunter.
We just had a few new Monster
Info books delivered.  I found "Temnocerans" to be particularly
interesting. Go ahead and give it
a flip through!  

Welcome, Hunter.
We've got a new Monster Info
book in stock today: "Elder Dragons"! Essential for any hunter who
hopes to face one of the beasts
and come back alive. 

Welcome, Hunter. I've got a very
rare Monster Info book in stock
today. What's it about? Well, let's just say
that if you're going to face Gogmazios,
this book is essential. Make sure to study up before you
put your life on the line out there! 

There's a book I want to get
in stock called "Heroes."  It's full of stories about all the
hunters who encountered Gogmazios.
Maybe your name is in it, too!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC099 (Felyne Flunky).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC099 (Felyne Flunky).txt
SIZE: 11052 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:56:46
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 27da6c5bbed2749737d382b1ff2154f5b146ac1d5a93d296a1f4717c0074c0ed
================================================================================

﻿Nyaow, any requests?  Find a seat, nya.
The show will start once you're ready.  Should I tell the Diva to begin?  The Diva's still singing.
Do you want to stop the performance?  Do you want to change your request? If you leave the Assembly, the performance
will stop. Do you want to leave? The Assembly is a place for relaxation.
Many come to escape the purressures
of everyday life. Why not furrget about hunting
and rest a while? Nya, nya nyaaaj&
Hunting with friends today?
Why not listen to some music together?  Nya, nya nyaaaj&
Greetings, Hunter!
First time?  I take care of things here
at the   Assembly  .
Pleasure to meet you! Wait, you don't know about
the Assembly, do you?  This is home to the   Diva  ,
a beautiful songstress admired by even
His Immenseness himself! If you have a song you'd like to request,
let me know and I'll pass it on to the
Diva to purrform!  After you've put your request in,   take
a seat  anywhere in the Assembly
and the show will begin.  If you want to listen in peace, you can
request to  Listen Alone  . But if you'd rather have company, you're
more than welcome to   Listen with
Others  ! When you listen with others, you can  keep
adding requests   and listen as long
as you'd like!  When you want to end a song, you can either
speak to me or leave the Assembly.
Simple, nya? Just don't go causing a ruckus --
people come here to relax and
enjoy the music!  Nya nyaaj& Nyarara?
Nyar...Nyarala? Hmm...no, that's not it. ...Nya?! How long have you been standing
there? How embarrassing! I was just trying to remember a song
I heard in my dreams last night. In my dream, I was a brave Felyne knight
off on a quest to save a beautiful
purrincess! On my way to the castle where the
purrincess was waiting for me, I wandered
into a deep, deep forest. That's when I heard the song somewhere
in the distance! It was the loveliest
voice... It had to be the purrincess!  I followed the voice through the forest...
when all of a sudden two guards in red
helmets and blue armor appeared!  I was so surpurrised that I woke up!
...Those two guards must have been the
guards of the castle. I wonder how I can get past them... ...Nya! Wait a minute! Recently I heard
  two Velocidrome  have been causing
purroblems for travelers on the road.  Do you think you can get rid of them,
Hunter? Maybe then I can get past the two
guards in my dream! I'll put in a request with the Guildmarm.
Look for  " The Hero & the Captain's Trap "!  In the meantime, I'll keep practicing the song.
Nya nyaaj& Nyarara?
...Hmm, that's not it either.  Nya, nya nyaaaj&
...Nya! Greetings, Hunter.
I've been waiting for you. Thanks to you I was able to get past the
two guards in my dream. I was so happy,
I told the Diva about my dream too.  And then the most amazing thing happened:
She started to  sing the song from
my dream ! It was beautiful! *purr*  There was something nostalgic about it...
I pictured snowy mountains...green hills...
rainy forests... It was so peaceful, meow.  I wanted you to hear it as well, so I asked
the Diva to add it to the song list.
You can listen to it anytime.  When you want to hear it,
choose  Soul Whisperer  
from the Song Selection. I still haven't been able to save
the purrincess in my dream yet, though.
Being a knight is a tough...even in dreams! Nya nyaaj& Nyarara?
Nyar...Nyarala? Hmm...no, that's not it. ...Nya?! You caught me singing again!
How embarrassing! I was just trying to remember another song
I heard in my dreams last night. After the two guards in blue armor, I
made it out of the forest and found the
Dunes stretched out in front of me. Then I began to hear the purrincess
singing another song. Her voice made me
feel warm and fuzzy inside. *purr*  I followed the voice and made my way
through the Dunes, and I finally reached
the castle. But suddenly a lance-wielding knight
came out of nowhere! It startled me
so much that I woke up.  That knight must be another one
of the castle guards. I wonder how
I can get past him...  ...Nya! Wait a minute! I heard that
recently a  Monoblos   has been
running a rampage around the Dunes! Do you think you can  capture  it,
Hunter? Maybe then I'll be able to overcome
the lance-wielding knight in my dream. I'll put in a request with the Guildmarm.
Look for  " The Hero and the Sandy Spear  "!  In the meantime, I'll keep practicing the song.
Nya nyaaj& Nyarara?
...Hmm, how did it go again? Nya, nya nyaaaj&
...Nya! Greetings, Hunter.
I've been waiting for you. Thanks to you I was able to get past the
lance-wielding knight in my dream! I was so
happy, I told the Diva about my dream too. And then the most amazing thing happened:
She started to  sing the song from
my dream ! It was beautiful! *purr*  There was something nostalgic about it...
The thrill of taking on a new challenge...
It got my heart racing with excitement!  I wanted you to hear it as well, so I asked
the Diva to add it to the song list.
You can listen to it anytime.  When you want to hear it,
choose  The Departed Ones
from the Song Selection. I still haven't been able to save
the purrincess of my dreams yet, though.
Maybe I'll find her tonight! *purr*  Nya nyaaj& Nyarara?
Nyar...Nyarala? Hmm...no, that's not it. ...Nya?! You need to stop sneaking up
on me! How embarrassing!  I was just trying to remember another song
I heard in my dreams last night. After the lance-wielding knight, I passed
through the castle gate and made my way
inside. It was very dark and hot. Then I began to hear the purrincess
singing another song! Her voice was so
soothing. *purr* I followed the voice and made my way
through the stifling heat... And suddenly a fiery king
dropped down in front of me!  The heat was so intense, I
thought my fur was going to catch
fire! That's when I woke up. I think the fiery king is the purrincess's
father. I wonder how I can calm him down
so I can ask about the purrincess...  ...Nya! Wait a minute! I heard that
recently a  Rathalos   was
spotted around the Volcanic Hollow!  Do you think you can get rid of it,
Hunter? Maybe then I'll be able to overcome
the fiery king in my dream! I'll put in a request with the Guildmarm.
Look for  " The Hero and the Fiery King "!  In the meantime, I'll keep practicing the song.
Nya nyaaj& Nyarara?
...Hmm, was that it? Nya, nya nyaaaj&
...Nya! Greetings, Hunter.
I've been waiting for you. Thanks to you I was able to overcome the
fiery king in my dream. I was so happy,
I told the Diva about my dream too.  And then the most amazing thing happened:
She started to  sing the song from
my dream ! It was beautiful! *purr*  There was something nostalgic about it...
The suspense of encountering a Rathalos
for the first time. I wanted you to hear it as well, so I asked
the Diva to add it to the song list.
You can listen to it anytime.  When you want to hear it,
choose  New Beginnings  
from the Song Selection. I still haven't been able to save
the purrincess of my dreams yet, but
something tells me I'm almost there! ... ...Nya?! Oh, it's you, Hunter.
Sorry, I was miles away. I was thinking about my dream again. Last
night, I finally found the purrincess,
but there was a complication...  I climbed up a long spiral staircase and
found myself in a room made of ice.  And there I saw the purrincess, deep asleep,
under the spell of an evil wizard. Just as I rushed over to try and wake her,
a giant  ice beast  appeared
and blocked my way! I furroze with furright, and before I could do
anything, I woke up. I bet that ice beast is testing me.
I need to purrove my worth as a knight! This is my last request, Hunter! I've put in
a request with the Guildmarm. Look for
  " Advanced: A Hero's Icy Test ."  We're so close, Hunter!
Purrlease, help me meet the
purrincess of my dreams!  Nya, nya nyaaaj&
...Nya! Greetings, Hunter.
Guess what...  I did it!
I saved the purrincess! After I defeated the ice beast, the room
of ice started to melt...and I started to
hear the singing voice again!  I looked over at the purrincess, and she
was released from the spell, and she was
singing and smiling at me!  I started walking over to her, my heart
beating out of my chest. But as I got
closer, I became more and more sleepy.  The next thing I knew, I woke up here in
the Assembly...and the Diva was singing
the same song from my dream. And then it all made sense.
The purrincess from my dream
was actually   the Diva  ! You could say that I'm her knight in
shining armor, put here to protect the
Assembly, nya?  It's all thanks to you, Hunter! As a token
of my appurreciation, I've added the last
song to the song list. When you want to hear it,
choose  Homeland  
from the Song Selection. Hunter, I would never have understood
this without you. Let ME sing you a song
as thanks. Nya, nya nyaaaj& Wow, Hunter! Did you really complete
The Master's Test? Why hasn't there
been a song written for you yet?!  In a hundred years, this hall will
echo with songs commemorating your
heroic deeds! Nya, nya nyaaaj& Nya, nya nyaaaj&
...Nya! Greetings, Hunter.
I've been waiting for you. As the Diva's knight, I wanted to
personally thank you for  unlocking
all the Diva's songs  ! Here, take this   Palico equipment  
as thanks.
I hope it's useful for your Palicoes. Hey, you should try listening
to some songs with them sometime!
Nya, nya nyaaa



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC100 (G-Arena Desk).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC100 (G-Arena Desk).txt
SIZE: 4884 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:57:26
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0d82c6b1c3af0ec732d60f92e360b15ef9fcf49271e3c0b98ca986e5668efcb2
================================================================================

﻿Here're today's Quests! Come see me again whenever
you want a REAL challenge! Um...you don't have enough money. You're not eligible for that one. Break a leg out there, Hunter!
...But please don't actually break
your legs.  Hm? Looks like you've
already got a Quest.  You got it. Quest Canceled! Gotcha. No cancel, then.  Here's what I've got for you. This Quest's free of charge.
Nothing to lose, right?  The total comes to  z. Sound good?  Go show'em you're a REAL Hunter!  Okay, I canceled the Quest. Aww, you chickening out?
*bock bock begowk* Hello! This is the G-rank Arena
desk. Come back when you're a
G-rank Hunter. *wink* dmy Hello!
Um, sorry, but the G-rank Arena desk
isn't ready yet.  But you can undertake Challenge Quests
if you have downloaded the Quest data! You can also check the rankings
of other hunters if you've exchanged
Guild Cards with them. Welcome to the G-rank Arena desk,
where we serve REAL challenges to
REAL hunters, 24-7. And once you've hunted yourself silly,
why not rest at the Assembly? The Diva's
voice will melt your pains away.  Congrats! I heard you're the one
who crushed that Ukanlos Quest.
You know what that means?  It means the Guild has given you
clearance to undertake
  G-rank   Arena Quests!  Those Gathering Hall Arena Quests? Pft.
Frenzied monsters? Pah.
This is where the REAL challenges are!  You are a REAL hunter, aren't you?
Then prove it! Congrats! You sure made short work of
The Master's Test, didn't ya?
Maybe you are a real hunter after all.  ...But there's "real" and then there's REAL.
Which are you? News flash! New Quest just in!  Think you're real enough to slay a
Zamtrios AND a Tigerstripe Zamtrios?
...Then don't just stand there -- go hunt!  News flash! New Quest just in!  Think you're real enough to slay a
Tidal Najarala? ...Then why are you just
standing there?! Get to work, Hunter! News flash! New Quest just in!  Think you're real enough to slay a
Shrouded Nerscylla?
Make me a believer, Hunter!  News flash! New Quest just in!  Think you're real enough to slay a
Diablos AND a Black Diablos? Then stop
staring at me like that and go fight! News flash! New Quests just in! Think you're real enough to slay a
Deviljho? Or THREE Tigrex?
Oh yeah! I knew YOU wouldn't back down! You're due some "Congrats," Hunter!
What for? You achieved an   A Rank  
for all G1& and G2& Quests!  Maybe you are a real Hunter after all.
Here, a little reward for your efforts.  You're due some more "Congrats," Hunter!
Why? Well, you achieved an   A Rank  
for all G3& Quests!  Not too shabby, Hunter.
Here, a little reward for your efforts. You're due some more "Congrats," Hunter!
Why? Well, you cleared every G-rank Quest
with   every weapon  ! I'm super proud of you, Hunter!
Here, a little reward for your efforts.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC101 (Jumbo Sweetheart).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC101 (Jumbo Sweetheart).txt
SIZE: 2999 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:57:44
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 95344a3132f1b369137a570393d6c778aa011cb9cf74054034ce51cc66198b01
================================================================================

﻿Please help me find that Tiny Crab Pearl,
Hunter! You should be able to get one
from a Carapaceon.  You'll find the request under the Event
Quests at the Quest Counter. Just remember,
you have to be the one to initiate it!  Hunter! I can't thank you enough for
finding that Tiny Crab Pearl for me! That was enough to convince the other
girls, so I didn't have to show them
my real ones! *Phew* I've been the Jumbo Sweetheart for
a while now, but I've never had a
Quest cause me so much stress before!  I'm trying to think what to say in my
letter to the Jumbo Village Chief. Well,
he's not technically the chief anymore.  Do you know him? He might seem odd at
times, but he's one of the kindest, most
cheerful Wyverians you'll ever meet. Last I heard, he had set out to
travel the world to look for land
to build a new village on.  Maybe I should write about the whole
"whose you-know-whats are bigger" ordeal.
What do you think? How could she...be so cruel... *sob*  The Minegarde girl. She...
She... She made me... *sob*  I'm sorry, Hunter. I need a minute. Oh me, oh my...
What do I dooooo? *sigh*  Eek! ...Oh, h-hello there! Can I help
you, Hunter?  ...I sighed? You heard that?
*sigh* Well, I could explain, but...
first let me introduce myself!  I'm the Jumbo Sweetheart!
Usually I handle Guild requests
from the tavern in Jumbo Village. So, yes, as you heard, there is something
worrying me. You see, I'm on vacation
with two of my Sweetheart friends.  We've been traveling all over the world,
seeing different places. I was having
a great time...until yesterday.  We were at a hot spring in Yukumo,
when the Minegarde girl said,
"Let's see whose are the biggest!" "You really have to feel them to know
how big they really are!" She wanted
us to all compare our... Our...um, our   you-know-whats  ! *blush*
Can you believe that?! I do NOT feel
comfortable showing those at all!  In the end, we weren't able to settle
the discussion in Yukumo, so they tried
to make me show them here! Right here!  And they ALMOST got me to do it! But I was
too embarrassed... After all, mine are
only really the size of   Tiny Crab Pearls  . ...! That's it! Hunter, do you think you
could help me find a Tiny Crab Pearl?? If I had one of those, I could show them
how big my you-know-whats are without
having to show them the real thing.  I hear Tiny Crab Pearls can be found on
Carapaceons, such as  Hermitaurs  
and  Daimyo Hermitaurs . But from what I know, the Carapaceons
with Tiny Crab Pearls are   slightly different  
from normal Carapaceons. How are they different? I'm not sure exactly,
but if you hunt enough of them I'm sure
you'll figure it out! I've put in a request called
 " Bonus: A Lady's Lament  " at
the Quest Counter. It's an Event Quest.  Make sure you   initiate the Quest
yourself , okay? It's can't be your
hunter friends!  I realllly don't want to have to show
the other Sweethearts my you-know-whats,
so you've gotta help me out!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC102 (Workshop Gaffer).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC102 (Workshop Gaffer).txt
SIZE: 7573 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:57:54
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: d354d54b797cd6d751ef86d4696a771fde97a53572d9a59ddbce775145574323
================================================================================

﻿Arr, ye hear? Rumor has it
there's a town somewhere with
springs of naturally hot water.  They say Dundorma's got it all,
but it don't got one of them! Yar, what I wouldn't give to take
a dip in a hot spring after sweating
my back off at work all day! 

Arr, headin' off on the hunt?
Well don't forget about yer mates.  Learnin' how to hunt with mates is
what makes you a REAL hunter, arr! 

Arr, Hunter! Gerover here.
Ye gotta help yer old mate!  I was transporting some foodstuffs --
fish, meat, fruit, and the like -- on
me old sandskiff, and holy heaven bread!  The skiff breaks down right in the
middle of the Dunes! You know, the Dunes with lots
of hungry monsters roaming about?
Yar, THOSE Dunes! I didn't want to leave out a buffet for
the beasts, so I buried the stuff nearby
until the sandskiff repairs are done...  But now a   Hermitaur  is snooping
around the area! Arr, bloomin' thing must be
sniffin' out me wares!  So, whatddaya say? Think ye can protect
me stuff from the Hermitaur while I work
on getting the sandskiff repaired? I've filed a request with the glasses
lady called   " Hermit Grab ."  Yar, show me what yer made of, Hunter!  

Arr, Hunter! A hearty thanks for
dealin' with that Hermitaur! I'm all through with the sandskiff repairs.
And thanks to you I still have some wares to
load onto it! But, arr, would ye believe it! I was just about to dig them up when a
 Great Jaggi  and a  Gendrome  
showed up all hungry-lookin'!  Bloomin' monsters. Now I can't dig up
anything! What do ye think, Hunter?
Can ye lend yer old mate another hand?  I've filed a request with the glasses
lady called   " Dinner Guests ."  Yar, show me what yer made of, Hunter!  Yar har har! 

Good news!
I got my goods delivered safe and sound.
All thanks to me old mate! A hearty thanks!  Yar, and there's somethin' I've been meaning
to say... I really admire the way you only
hunt in your undergarments. ...What? You don't... But all the
folks from the Val Habar caravans
say that you... Arr, I thought that was your thing, the whole
"clad in nothing but yer skivvies" idea.  ...I see. Well...this is awkward. A hearty
apology! Anyway, underwear or not, yer
still a hero to me! 

Hunter! Is it true what they say?
Did you really finish
The Master's Test?  Holy heaven bread! Incredible! Look
at me, I'm getting all teary-eyed.  See that? That ain't my nose runnin',
that's tears runnin' down me nose!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC103 (Affable Local).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC103 (Affable Local).txt
SIZE: 6518 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:58:10
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 18816ddb5746a6f3ce042f370f1468076dfc3428e8d4123972dd9e7a8dec0394
================================================================================

﻿Hey, man. There are so many monster
attacks on this town... Sometimes
it feels like a real bummer...  But when I think of the countless
times all the townspeople have
come together to defend this place...  I get all warm and fuzzy inside.
That's not weird, right? 

Hey, man!
Hunting with friends today?
Awesome!  Make sure you're all prepped
before you head out. I'll be
rooting for you from here!  

You know, man, just being here reminds
me of the times I stayed up night and
day, working to rebuild the town.  Sometimes I wish I could experience
times like that again...minus the monster
attacks, of course. Those times really made me realize how
important universal cooperation is. Mm, I'm
going to ponder that thought a bit more. 

Hey, man. There are so many monster
attacks on this town... Sometimes
it feels like a real bummer...  But when I think of the countless
times all the townspeople have
come together to defend this place...  I get all warm and fuzzy inside.
That's not weird, right? 

Hey, man!
Hunting with friends today?
Awesome!  Make sure you're all prepped
before you head out. I'll be
rooting for you from here!  

Hey, man!
Things have been feelin' kinda heavy
lately, don't you think? Speaking of which, you know the dude
transporting his foodstuffs with the
sandskiff, right? Well, the sandskiff broke down in transit,
so he buried his goods in the sand to
hide them from monsters. Not long ago, I went with him to dig up
the goods. We brought torches to shoo
away the monsters.  But, it was a total bummer!
It wasn't long before a swarm of
 Bnahabra   showed up! I know Bnahabra aren't exactly
the most DANGEROUS monsters out there,
but they are NOT into universal cooperation.  Maybe you can   teach them a lesson
for us? I've filed a request called
 " Bnahabra Buffet " with your Guildmarm.  Please! I want to dig in peace! 

Hey, man. Thanks a lot for handling
those pesky Bnahabra. Now we can
finally dig in peace.  And we're one step closer to making this
town a better place! ...Is what the Master
of Defense would probably say, heh heh. 

Hey, man! Welcome back!
You really did it!  I bet when the Master of Defense
hears you cleared his test, he'll
be ecstatic! He'll probably try to keep his emotions
in check and say something like,
"Good job, Hunter, and well done." So let me express his joy for him. Ahem.
"Great work! You really did it!
Woohoo! Go you! Woop woop woop!"



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC104 (Weary Wanderer).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC104 (Weary Wanderer).txt
SIZE: 7287 bytes
MODIFIED: 27/08/2024, 07:58:24
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 2836d7751ece0433e724263899b88e0f3ab2dbf0cfa745c8cf10553ee9ba5edc
================================================================================

﻿Do you like your work, Hunter?  It must take a lot of guts to stand
up to large monsters the way you do.  Makes me wonder where courage comes from.
Maybe it's inherent? Perhaps it comes from
thin air? ...Such a mystery. Hello again, Hunter.
Getting ready for a hunt with some
of your pals? Let me help out! I'm gonna use all my
might! ...To cheer you on from my comfy
seat right here.  Do you like your work, Hunter?  It must take a lot of guts to stand
up to large monsters the way you do.  Makes me wonder where courage comes from.
Maybe it's inherent? Perhaps it comes from
thin air? ...Such a mystery. So much cloud cover...
...Too tired...to stand. Whew, I need some sunshine to perk
me up. Maybe I was a plant in a
past life...?  Do you like your work, Hunter?  It must take a lot of guts to stand
up to large monsters the way you do.  Makes me wonder where courage comes from.
Maybe it's inherent? Perhaps it comes from
thin air? ...Such a mystery. Hello again, Hunter.
Getting ready for a hunt with some
of your pals? Let me help out! I'm gonna use all my
might! ...To cheer you on from my comfy
seat right here.  Fine work taking down that Monoblos.
Seems the Master of Defense arrived safely.
I would stand up to say thanks, but...whew!  Oh, uh, and I wonder if I could ask you
for your help in another matter?  I have a merchant pal that's traveling
here and there, gathering materials for
the repair of the city.  But one of the safer routes through
the Frozen Seaway was recently
 blocked by ice  . There is an alternate route, but a
monster is   camping out
on the roof  of the place.  I can think of only two solutions.
One, do something about the monster on
the roof of the alternate route.  Or, two, use a  Powderstone  to
blast away the ice blocking the original
route. I've filed two requests with the Guildmarm:
  " Hide-and-Freak  " and
  " Take a Powderstone  ."  Either of the two will do. My acquaintance
and I would appreciate it. Whew, all
that explaining made me exhausted!  Hello, Hunter.
I've been wondering... The Master of Defense is a
retired hunter, right? If that's true, why do you think he still
carries his   hunting knife ?
Isn't that only for hunters on active duty? To tell you the truth, I gave into my
curiosity and asked the man himself.  And you know what he said? Nothing.
He just laughed!  I have no idea what he meant by that laugh,
but I do know this now: The reason he still carries his knife
is locked away somewhere deep.  And every time someone asks about it,
he locks his secret away deeper, away from
anyone's reach.  That's the vibe I get, anyway.
Whew. All that inquisiting made
me exhausted.  ... I heard the Master of Defense
gave you his parasol. I guess he didn't need it
anymore.  Huh.  It's all coming together now.
He gave his knife to the Ace
Commander, his parasol to you... It all makes sense! But I'll leave
it up to you to figure out why.  Thank you, Hunter, for all you've
done. ...Thank you.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC105 (Chatty Woman).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC105 (Chatty Woman).txt
SIZE: 7674 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:45:08
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: c4f0e6e5f84484910ed4e30fdc790b775c5975a065abe8206e24aa785b21fb87
================================================================================

﻿Did you know that you can fish in the
river that runs through the town? Do you like fishing?
What's your favorite fish? Oh, me? I LOOOOVVE fishing!
And fish! Tee-hee.  

Hello! How's it going?
How are you?
Going out on a Quest? You're a rare one! I can't say I know too
many hunters that are all gung-ho about
questing right after defending the city.  

What's that you say? You want to
stop for a chat? Oh, you're off to
hunt with your friends? How wonderful! I bet your friends
are just the nicest people. Tee-hee.  

Ah, Hunter. Can you spare
a minute? Are you busy? No?
I have a big favor to ask.  You see, I have this fishing mentor who
lives in a faraway village. Maybe you've heard of him?
The  Fishing Felyne   of Cheeko Sands? Anyway, around the time of the last attack,
he was kind enough to have the Meownster
Hunters bring me a whole barrel of fresh fish. It was a godsend since no one had
fresh fish at that time, what with all
the trade routes being closed. I really want to return the favor, but I
need your help in catching some fish!  If you could catch some   Silverfish   for me,
that'll let me focus on catching an Ancient
Fish and a Gastronome Tuna.  I want to show my mentor what
I...I mean, we, are capable of now!
Ahem. I've already filed a request called
  " Hi Ho Silver  "
with the Guildmarm. I'm counting on you, Hunter!
You'll help, won't you?
Pleeease! Tee-hee. 

Thanks for catching those Silverfish for
me, Hunter! My mentor was really happy
with the care package I sent. He said he'd share it with Mother Meow.
And guess what! He sent more fish!
Well, it wasn't exactly fish...  But it was kinda similar...
He sent the head of a Plesioth! According to him, there's a Hunter that
came to Sunsnug Isle and caught
anything and everything!  ...And I thought I was good. I wonder
where that hunter is now. Do you think
he or she would be my new mentor?  Hunter, wait! Could it be?
Was it you? It was, wasn't it? You're the one that caught the Plesioth
at Cheeko Sands! Something that could
have been brought to my attention EARLIER!  I feel so silly having asked you to
catch some tiny little Silverfish!  Next time I'll ask you to catch
something ginormous, like a
Lagiacrus! Tee-hee.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC106 (Pro Hunter).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC106 (Pro Hunter).txt
SIZE: 9959 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:46:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 8855f7cf38669aa9ca88222c49f82f20ef7fb94193427dec088eb033b2f5ec72
================================================================================

﻿Hey, kid. Protip: Every monster has an elemental
weakness. Be PROactive not REactive! Do
your research BEFORE the fight.  Heh, no need for thanks.
Just a little tip from a pro.  Off on a Quest? Take a tip from a pro:
Strength in numbers, Hunter.
Even pros need a helping hand sometimes.  Hey, kid. New to town? Feeling lost?
Don't worry, I'm a pro. Here, let me
give you some of my protips.  See the long staircase up ahead?
That'll take you to the  Elder Hall  . But not just anybody is allowed passage.
If you don't have the right clearance, the
guard won't let you in, even if you're a pro. However, if you DO get clearance, you'll
be eligible to undertake quests that even
I've never been on:  G-rank Quests ! Of course, if you want some good ol'
Low-rank or High-rank quests, you can still
find them at the Val Habar Gathering Hall. Anyway, be proactive, use your head,
and stick to it, and maybe you can
become a pro too. Heh, naturally, it takes
time to get THIS good. How goes it, kid? Been hearin' a lot about you lately.
Anyone would think you're a pro! Look, I've been thinking, maybe I'll let you in
on some   must-do Quests  , which
will help you take things to the next level.  But! Before I let you in on this,
I wanna see for myself that you've
got what it takes. So...let's see how you handle
  " Singin' the Blues ."  Complete this, and we can take things to a
whole new level. Heh, I know. Intimidating
talking to a pro, isn't it? Well, look who's back!
All done with "Singin' the Blues" already?
Not bad, kid, not bad!  Alright, here are those Quests I promised:
Four different   Harvest Tours ! These tours will take you to the Ancestral
Steppe, the Sunken Hollow, the Primal Forest,
and the Dunes. Protip: Gathering is just as important
as hunting. Remember that, kid!  I filed the Quests with the Guildmarm already.
Heh, yup. Proactive gathering.
Just blew your mind, didn't I?  Hey there, kid! Hearin' good things
about you lately. Maybe you want to take
things to the next level?  Here, I've got something for you, from one
hunter to another. More  must-do
Quests   for a wannabe-pro like yourself! But! Before I let you in on this little
secret, you've REALLY got to show me
what you've got! So...let's see how you handle
  " Primal Pests  ."  Complete this, and I'll tell you all
about those must-do Quests.
Heh, no need for thanks. Pros have a responsibility
to help up-and-comers. Well, look who's back!
All done with "Primal Pests" already?
Not bad, kid, not bad! As promised, here are the Quests:
Three different   Harvest Tours ! These tours will take you to
the Frozen Seaway, the Volcanic Hollow,
and Heaven's Mount.  You look like you can't wait to get
your hands in the dirt! I filed the Quests with the Guildmarm already.
Heh, I know. You wanna be pro too.
Patience, kid, patience.  Hey there, kid!
Working smart, not hard, I hope?  Here, I've got something for you. One more
 must-do Quest  for a promising
up-and-comer like yourself!  But! Before I let you in on this little
secret, show me once more that you've
got what it takes!  So...let's see how you handle
  " Desert Delinquents  ."  Complete this, and I'll tell you all about
that must-do Quest. Kid, you can't give up.
We've got to take things to the next level!  Well, look who's back!
All done with "Desert Delinquents" already?
Not bad, kid, not bad! Well then, here's that quest I promised:
Another  Harvest Tour  !
This tour will take you to the Dunes. I'm afraid this'll be the last one. I know,
I know. I'll miss them too. I've already filed the quest with the
Guildmarm. Heh, I know. You wanna be
pro so bad it hurts. Been there. Nice weather, eh, kid?
It's been a while since I've
seen the sky so blue. That reminds me of a protip:
Fine weather means a
fine day for a Quest. This one's called   " Advanced: Prickly Pair  ."  I'm gonna be straight with you. This is
a Quest I took up originally, but something's
come up that I need to take care of.  I need someone to take care of this
while I'm gone, so I'm gonna give you
the chance. Whaddaya say, kid? Think you're pro enough?
I've filed the quest with the Guildmarm.  Heh, I know. It's so close you can taste
it. Do this, and you're one step closer to
becoming a REAL pro!  Hey there, kid!
You did me a big favor taking care of
"Advanced: Prickly Pair" for me.  Thanks to you, I was able to accompany
another up-and-comer on his first Quest! I was a bit worried he wouldn't be
proactive, so I decided to tag along
and keep an eye on him. Don't worry, he made it back
without any injuries.
...Thanks to my protips. His next Quest is a large monster hunt,
so I'm thinking about tagging along for
that as well. It's the duty of a pro, after all.  And that means...I can give you another
chance to do one of my Quests!  It's called   " Terrible Tyrant ."
Think you can handle it? Thanks, kid! I know you've got what it takes
to take things to the next level!
I've filed the quest with the Guildmarm. Heh, I know. You're wondering if one day
you'll have up-and-comers to mentor too.
Some day, kid, some day.  Hey there, kid!
Many thanks for handling "Terrible Tyrant"
for me.  Thanks to you, I was able to watch
my young up-and-comer hunt his very
first large monster! It was hard not to jump in and use my
pro skills, but somehow he managed
to pull through on his own.  It made me so proud to see him follow
my protips and kick butt! I'm sure one day
he's gonna take things to the next level.  Of course, I'll be there to hand out
the protips when he needs them!  Do you have any up-and-comers of
your own? How about a mentor?
...Is that so? In any case, I'm thankful
for all your help, kid. Never forget to be proactive, and don't
stop taking things to the next level! You did it, kid!
You finished The Master's Test!
Congratulations! Way to be proactive out there. Using your
head is key to a successful hunt.
And it keeps you alive too! I gotta admit it, kid, you're
one smart hunter! Surely the Master knows that too, and
that's why he trusted you with the Quest. You know what, kid. You did it. You're a pro!
But it doesn't stop here. Now get out there
and take things to the next level!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC107 (Guard Captain).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC107 (Guard Captain).txt
SIZE: 1391 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:49:06
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0817f79ca6859de982353812e66b6b7a81c461dfba40643135a800ce3c6868dc
================================================================================

﻿Greetings, accomplished hunter.
Welcome to the Elder Hall.
His Immenseness was waiting for you. 

That Wyverian Lady is an enigma.
I hear she likes idle chitchat. We
seem to have that much in common. Hah!  

Greetings, accomplished hunter.
Welcome to the Elder Hall.
His Immenseness was waiting for you. 

Congratulations, Hunter.
Few can lay claim to the G-rank
Special Permit that you now carry. You know, I still remember the day you
first came to the Elder Hall.  In truth, I did not take you for one to
brave the unforgiving dangers of G-rank
Quests, but you proved me wrong.  You are a fine example of what every
hunter should strive to become.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC108 (Minister).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC108 (Minister).txt
SIZE: 3617 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:50:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: aef05079a18a71bec0bcc5ea9d22e73989583482354e21465ee19fcdf8b6f6f9
================================================================================

﻿How may I help you? 

See you real soon.  

dmy As you know, it is good form to give
greetings and thanks to your fellow
hunters during a Quest.  To do this, use Chat. Once you become
accustomed to this feature, I'm sure it
will be of great use to you.  

As you know, it is good form to give
greetings and thanks to your fellow
hunters during a Quest.  To do this, use Chat. Once you become
accustomed to this feature, I'm sure it
will be of great use to you.  

I don't believe we've met, good hunter.
How do you do? Ah, I see.
...Hm? Me?  Let us say that I am the one who handles
His Immenseness's political affairs. *Ahem*...
Allow me to explain a little bit
about the Elder Hall.  This is a special place that only those
with special clearance may enter. As such,  Hunters for Hire  
are forbidden entry. If you'd like to meet with Hunters for
Hire, you must visit the   Gathering Hall
in Val Habar . 

If you would like to use the  Gong  
here in the Elder Hall, I will gladly
assist you.  The Gong here works just like the
one in the Gathering Hall does,
so I trust you know what to do. 

Whee-hee!
A joyous day this is, good hunter!  Gogmazios has been defeated, and His
Immenseness has bestowed you with an
Aged Text inscribed with prophecy!  This is just my personal opinion, but I
believe the words inscribed in Aged
Texts are more than mere "prophecies."  The word "prophecy" makes them sound like
mysteries, beyond the realm of human
knowledge. But are the inscriptions in the Aged
Texts not based on the wisdom and
experiences of the people of ancient times?  It is no different than how we predict
the weather by observing the patterns
of nature. Yes, I do believe that the Aged
Texts are like a primitive form of
the Dragonwatch! Naturally, as the Minister of Dundorma
and Head of the Dragonwatch, this makes
me feel great pride! I am looking forward to your
future accomplishments, good hunter!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC109 (Wyverian Lady).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC109 (Wyverian Lady).txt
SIZE: 4213 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:52:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: caa6753c146063b756bca6f4cf3a7677791e4e410e65ec9ef28135e6ae7c77c1
================================================================================

﻿Oh shoot...
I wanted to give you a gift,
but your Item Box is full. I'll hold on to it for now. Come back
and see me when you manage to free up
some space. 

Hey, Hunter!
What's up?
Care for a beverage?  ...What's that? You don't drink before
a Quest? Why, that's very responsible
of you. *giggles*  Hunters before your time always used to
come here and have a few before a hunt.
Reminds me of the old days. 

Hey, Hunter! What's up?
Wait, you're that hunter that recently
got clearance for G-rank Quests, right?  I heard all about you from the
Guildmaster in Val Habar.  Why did he tell me? Well, I do
the same job he does, but I do it
here at the Elder Hall.  Come see me whenever you need to pick
up your VE Tickets. I'll be right here,
just standing, dishing out the good stuff.  

Hey, Hunter! What's up?
You went hunting AGAIN?!  Wow, you don't quit...and I respect
that. Here, a little present for all
your hard work.  

Hey, Hunter! What's up?
Off hunting with friends?!  Wow, you are SO popular...and I respect
that. Here, a little present for the
coolest hunter out there.  

Hey, Hunter! Guess what's up!
A report came in from the Dragonwatch.  It seems an elder dragon has been
spotted somewhere near Dundorma.  We might need you to  intercept  it
if it becomes a threat. Just be ready when
the time comes, okay!  

Hey, Hunter! It's happening!
The elder dragon has begun its
attack on Dundorma! If you're ready, initiate the   interception  
and help us defend the city. 

Hey, Hunter! I learned a little
something about Gogmazios.  Do you remember the incident involving
the missing firepowder from the villages
and towns?  Turns out, that was all
Gogmazios's doing!  Apparently, firepowder is one of the elder
dragon's favorite dishes. Pretty interesting,
don't you think? Makes me wonder what other kinds of
monsters you're going to run into!
I can't wait to find out!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC110 (Guard Captain 2).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC110 (Guard Captain 2).txt
SIZE: 5258 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:54:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 34d16d4e27bbcabcb772eb1c99507172f2c593f5685edc2f2f1e2b39ef73baf2
================================================================================

﻿Well met, good hunter.
Welcome to the Elder Hall. His Immenseness was expecting you.
Please, do not keep him waiting. Have you had the chance to partake in
any of the Elder Hall's Harvest Tours?  The materials you can gather during G-rank
Harvest Tours differ from those you can
gather when on a normal  Harvest Tour. When you have a chance, I humbly
advise you undertake one of the
tours available here.  Who knows what kind of
materials you might find.  Do you know of Hunt-a-thons?  They are unique Quests that involve hunting
monsters in succession. They require
hunting at least two large monsters. After that, you will be issued a Paw Pass
Ticket, which you can deliver to end the
Quest at any time. However, you are also free to continue
hunting until time expires.  Hunt-a-thons may be just the
thing when you are want to hunt
for certain materials. Certain G-rank Quests take place at a new
location that is unavailable in Low-rank
and High-rank Quests: the Dunes. Depending on the time of day, the Dunes
can feel like two completely different
locales. During the day, it is scorching hot;
at night, freezing cold. Whether you are there at day or night, you
will need certain items to help you battle
the extreme temperatures. The right item for the right environment,
good hunter. That is what makes all the
difference. Good hunter, you DO know the difference
between Hunting, Capture, and Slaying
Quests, do you not? ...Right. Of course you do. My apologies. A hunter acknowledged by the Elder Hall
couldn't possibly mix them up. I don't
know what I was thinking.  The Battlequarters is a fortification
designed to withstand and respond to
attacks by elder dragons and the like. It is fitted out with various mechanisms
to intercept the beasts. Master the mechanisms, master the battle.
That is what they say.  By hunting a certain number of
specific monsters during Quests, you
can unlock brand new Quests.  How many do you need to hunt?
Who can say. A hundred, perhaps?
Or a thousand? But a great reward surely awaits
the one who reaches the special number.  To decipher Aged Texts, one
must acquire knowledge relating
to monsters.  Hunt monsters and you'll acquire
knowledge, which can be used towards
deciphering the texts.  But remember, knowledge of overly-common
monsters doesn't contribute much to
deciphering. Well met, good hunter.
Welcome to the Elder Hall. His Immenseness was expecting you.
Please, do not keep him waiting. Do you know of Endurance Quests?  These are Quests that involve hunting
multiple large monsters in succession.
Sounds dangerous, does it not? Still, I hear the rewards are great indeed... Greetings, good hunter.
Might I have a minute of your time? Of late, there have been strange incidents
occurring across the land where large
amounts of   firepowder have gone missing  . One town reported that their
armory was broken into, or rather,
broken into pieces. The stockpile of firepowder barrels that
was stored inside was nowhere to be
found. At first, it was believed that someone
had destroyed the storehouse in an attempt
to steal the valuable weapons inside... But all that was missing was the firepowder.
Not a single weapon had been touched.  But wait! It gets stranger: Globs of a  highly
viscous liquid  resembling black oil were
found splattered around the scene. Reports of similar occurrences are increasing
with each day. We haven't the slightest idea
what to make of it.  Something told me that sharing this
information with you would prove
helpful in solving this mystery. An  Urgent Quest   has been
prepared for you. Do let us know if you
learn of anything relating to these incidents.  Greetings, good hunter.
I hear His Immenseness has
given you an Aged Text.  They say that Aged Texts contain the
secrets of monsters that still remain
a mystery to us. Where and when they can be found, in what
situations they appear... It is said that all
is inscribed in remarkably accurate detail. This information would undoubtedly be
valuable to you, Hunter.  However, Aged Texts are written in the
ancient tongue, and, furthermore, they have
been encrypted too.  As they are, the scriptures in the texts
mean nothing. But ciphers are made to be
deciphered. To decipher them, you'll require extensive
knowledge on monsters. And that means
you'll have to take on more hunts! The monster knowledge you gain with each
hunt will naturally decipher the secrets
hidden in the Aged Texts. Perhaps this was a measure designed to
keep inexperienced hunters from carelessly
challenging the ruthless beasts.  But I trust this will be no ordeal for a
seasoned hunter such as you. After all, you
are the mighty hunter who fell Gogmazios!  I have faith that you will unlock
the secrets within the Aged
Texts, good hunter. Now go forth and acquire
the knowledge required!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC111 (Relaxed Hunter).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC111 (Relaxed Hunter).txt
SIZE: 2282 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:57:10
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 3df212abad8049bbec6ccc1fcb6a361401a7d5f26160a85138fbfc9f4bb983dd
================================================================================

﻿Ahhhh! So relaxed!
Did you come to listen to
some chill-out music too?  I feel you, friend. Stab, carve,
stab, carve... The hunting life
gets stressful, y'know?  That's why it's important to
come here, kick back, and chillax
to some awesome tunes now and then.  

Off hunting with friends?
Alright, I'm gonna chillax here.
May the power of music be with you!  

Ahhhh! That's some sweet, sweet news!
It feels like all my worries have melted
away and all my old scars have healed. You know, after I heard the news of
what you'd done, I listened to some
awesome tunes...  And now I feel like I'm
overflowing with energy!  Nice work, Hunter. I'm going to
chillax here and celebrate with
some sweet, sweet tunes.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC112 (Relay Hunter).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC112 (Relay Hunter).txt
SIZE: 4909 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 15:58:44
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: d366409ae7170d588793b03fec87e3225d39f2b3ffd49d7b82805821d6da71cb
================================================================================

﻿I've gotta admit it...I'm in LOVE with
the Diva's voice. I could just drift
away to the sound of those notes. I mean, this Arena AND the Diva...
What else could a hunter want?
You know what, this is the BEST TOWN EVER!  Whoa, quite the crowd today!
Days like this are perfect for
selecting "Listen with Others." That way, everyone can listen to
the Diva's beautiful tones!
Share the love, Hunter, share the love.  Before I say this, you have to
understand that I'm just the messenger,
okay? The messenger! You-Know-Who  
has a job for you. ...Stop! Don't try to guess who it is!
For your own safety, and mine! Just quietly get it done like
a good hunter. Here, it's called
...  " Egg-straction: The Reckoning  "!  There! I said it! Aaahhh, I didn't ask
for this, but they wouldn't let me
refuse! You'll do it, right? You have to! Okay?
Now get outta here before someone sees! Psst...Hunter!
You got it done, right? You KNOW,
the THING? The THING! The  egg delivery  !
For the love of--! I can't believe you made
me say that... Do you think anyone heard? Keep your voice down!
Anyway, You-Know-Who... ...you KNOW, the REAL Don! The
boss behind the scenes! Shh!
I can't believe I just said that! Like I was saying, You-Know-Who has
  one last job   for you. It's an   Urgent Quest   called
  " Advanced: Red Dragon's Dawn ."  ...Urgent. More like, too late! The thing's
already hatched for crying out loud!
I don't know what's going on anymore!  We've been talking too long. I can trust you
to get this done, right? Okay? Now get outta
here before someone gets suspicious!  Psst...Hunter!
You got it done, right? You KNOW,
the THING? The THING! "Advanced: Red Dragon's Dawn"!
Ringing any bells?! Anyway, You-Know-Who
has a message for you. "Harrumph! Egg-cellent work!
I knew you had the eggs to get the
job done. "The one who can overcome the power of
the egg is destined to become legend!
Now, let us sing the Egg Anthem!"  ...The rest of it is just him
singing, so I'm gonna go ahead and
skip that part.  I know you want to say it, but don't
even think about it! I don't care if
you recognize his way of speaking!  Do us both a favor and DO NOT speak his
name here!  I've done my part, now scramble!  Psst...Hunter!
I've got a message for you.  Sorry, I know this is bad timing.
...Hey, I didn't ask for this.  Anyways,  You-Know-Who   left another
message for you.  "Harrumph! Egg-cellent work!
I still remember the first
time you came to this city."  "You were..." Blah, blah, blah,
yadda, yadda, yadda, and the rest isn't
really important. Okay, are we done here? ...What? Of course I heard about your
accomplishment! But this is hardly the
time or the place for congratulations! ...Fine, fine! Congrats! Now scramble
before someone sees us!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC113 (Fastidious Felyne).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC113 (Fastidious Felyne).txt
SIZE: 7163 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:00:18
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: ddab3c3836f9a54bbffa7753ca74b9585a8bd40b53d5641ec03c05d67b783bda
================================================================================

﻿I want to clean the spots where
those two hunters are sitting REAL
BAD! But they're regulars... I can't just ask them to move, can I?
But I'm a purrfectionist, and it's so dirty!
Nya! I hope they leave...soon! *Sweep sweep*
Hunting with friends today, Hunter? Don't worry, I'm gonna clean the place up
REAL NICE for you! No, don't try to help.
Just kick back and enjoy the purrformance!  I want to clean the spots where
those two hunters are sitting REAL
BAD! But they're regulars... I can't just ask them to move, can I?
But I'm a purrfectionist, and it's so dirty!
Nya! I hope they leave...soon! *Sweep sweep*
Hunting with friends today, Hunter? Don't worry, I'm gonna clean the place up
REAL NICE for you! No, don't try to help.
Just kick back and enjoy the purrformance!  *Sweep sweep*
Hunting with friends today, Hunter? Don't worry, I'm gonna clean the place up
REAL NICE for you! No, don't try to help.
Just kick back and enjoy the purrformance!  I want to clean the spots where
those two hunters are sitting REAL
BAD! But they're regulars... I can't just ask them to move, can I?
But I'm a purrfectionist, and it's so dirty!
Nya! I hope they leave...soon! *Sweep sweep*
Hunting with friends today, Hunter? Don't worry, I'm gonna clean the place up
REAL NICE for you! No, don't try to help.
Just kick back and enjoy the purrformance!  *Sweep sweep*
Hunter! You've gotta hear this! I ran into two hunters who apparently
came  from hell ! Meow!
This is big news! I was gonna take a break from cleaning
to ask them to tell me all about the place...
...but I just COULDN'T STOP SWEEPING!  ...So I decided to eavesdrop on their
conversation instead. Meh heh heh.
Here's what I overheard, nya!  "Hey, partner! Let's go hunt a Lunastra!
Guah ha ha!" "Good idea! And why not hunt an Ashen
Lao-Shan Lung while we're at it?
Bah ha ha!"  Curiosity got the best of me, so I
tailed them. Along the way, a  Gypceros  
appeared out of nowhere, meow! The two hunters saw it and said,
"A Gypceros is a walk in the park for
the two of us! Guah ha ha!"  ...But then one of them seemed to have
gotten something in his eye, so they
ignored the monster and spurrinted past it! I want to see what they're up to now, but
that Gypceros is still in the way. Could
you sweep it off the path for me, Hunter?  I've put in a request called
 " Haughty Hell Hunters  ."
Let me know when the path's all clean, nya?  *Sweep sweep*
Thanks for cleaning up the path for
me, Hunter! When I caught up with the two Hell Hunters,
they were taking a break with a little
nourishment. From the look of it, they're still set on
hunting a Lunastra and an Ashen Lao-Shan
Lung, meow.  I'm gonna continue tailing them as soon as
I finish my shift today... Wait, is this just
the color of the floor? I thought it was dirt! *Sweep sweep*
Hunter! More news on the
 two Hell Hunters  ! After I finished yesterday's sweeping,
I found them and overheard them talking: "Hey, partner! That Lunastra should be
somewhere on the other side of the
Everwood, guah ha ha!"  "Don't forget that Ashen Lao-Shan Lung,
bah ha ha!" But on the way through the Everwood, a
 Diablos  showed up! The two looked at it, and one of them said,
"A Diablos? Piece of cake! Bah ha ha!"  ...But then one of them looked like he got
a stomachache, so they ignored the monster
and spurrinted out of the Everwood! I want to follow them, but that Diablos
is still in the way. Could you sweep it
out of the Everwood for me, Hunter? I've put in a request called
 " Harebrained Hell Hunters  ."  Let me know when the path's all clean, nya?
*sweep sweep* *Sweep sweep*
Thanks for cleaning the path for me, Hunter!  When I caught up with the two Hell Hunters,
I think their stomachs were feeling better,
because they were eating a nice meal! From the look of it, they're still
after that Lunastra and Ashen
Lao-Shan Lung, meow. I'm gonna continue tailing them as soon as
I finish my shift today... Wait, am I just
spreading the dirt around? Nya! *Sweep sweep*
Hunter! More news on the
 two Hell Hunters  ! After I finished all the cleaning yesterday,
I found them and overheard them talking: "Hey, partner! That Lunastra should be right
over the Dunes, guah ha ha!" "It'll be a good warm up for that Ashen
Lao-Shan Lung, bah ha ha!"  But along the way, a  Tigrex   and a
 Brute Tigrex   appeared!  The two looked at it, and one of them said,
"A Tigrex? This'll be like taking candy from
a baby! Guah ha ha!" ...But then it seemed like they couldn't
find their Cool Drinks, so they ignored the
monster and spurrinted out of there! I want to follow them, but those monsters
are still in the way. Could you sweep them
off the Dunes for me, Hunter?  I've put in a request called
 " Advanced: Hell Hunter Hoax  ."  Let me know when the path's all clean, nya?
*sweep sweep* *Sweep sweep*
Thanks for cleaning the path for me, Hunter!  When I caught up with the two Hell Hunters,
they were fully stocked up on all their
necessities...  And they finally found and
defeated that Lunastra and
Ashen Lao-Shan Lung!  The battles were a sight to behold, Hunter.
Those two are supurr strong! Like demons
from...um, hell! And thanks to their hunt,   new materials
are available at the Market.  
I'd recommend a stop at the Wyporium.  Thanks again for helping me, meow.
Now I can get back to doing what
I love: sweeping! Guah ha ha!
Bah ha ha!
*sweep sweep*  *Sweep sweep*
Congratulations, Hunter!  I heard you made squeaky clean work
of that Quest! Way to go, nya!  I overheard the two Hell Hunters
talking about you, by the way. "Hey, partner! Hear the news? Some
hunter finished a heavy-duty quest!
Guah ha ha!" "That so? Looks like we gotta step
up our game! Bah ha ha!" They went out to hunt right after that.
You've really motivated a lot of
other hunters out there, meow! It made me think: Maybe I need to step
up my sweeping game? Check this out!
*sweep sweep*



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC115 (Funky Felyne).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC115 (Funky Felyne).txt
SIZE: 5919 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:02:52
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 924d8a48ff1ff0a61708e2dc086cd9ea26d92fbd3a6023ab6ac22f81671f8ed2
================================================================================

﻿No... No... No...
Oh! Wuddup, baby? This cat is on a mission
to find the funkiest, freshest 'do out there.  You know any happening styles?
There's got to be some cat out there with a
'do so hot it'll set my soul on fire!  Goin' on a hunt with your crew?
Right on, right on.
Stay cool out there, baby.  What's shakin', baby?
I let myself in. That's cool, right?
Man, this pad is dy-na-mite! ...Say what? For real? You don't
know who I am? You jivin' me?  Well then, allow me to introduce myself!
They call me the   Funky Felyne  , ya dig?
I'm a traveling hairstylist.  I travel the world giving hunters
the hippest hairdos, the freshest 'fros,
the...well, you catch my drift.  But check it. Yesterday, my mojo just
up and disappeared! Bam! You feel me?
I got no inspiration left.  That's why I'm here. I feel good vibes
comin' from you. I think you can help
me. You down?  ...OHHH YEAH! Right on, baby!
Alright, here's the lowdown:  I need something to spark my fire,
and there's only one monster that
can do it. Oh yeah, baby. You know what I'm talkin'
about. The monster with that   explosive
pompadour style ! If I could lay my eyes on one of those
 Brachydios   cats, I just know my mojo
will come back to me!  I've already put in a word with that
foxy mama in green. The password is
 " Bad Hair Day: Brachydios  ," ya dig?  I'll check ya later, then.
Good lookin' out, baby!  OHHH YEAH!
The way you took care of that Brachydios
really got my fire goin' again! Thanks to you, I got my mojo back!
My soul is burnin' with inspiration.
You did me a solid, baby. But it still feels like I'm missin'
somethin'... I just can't put my
paw on it at the moment. I'll let you know when it comes to me,
okay? Meanwhile, stay groovy, baby!  Wuddup, baby?
What in the world is goin' on with your
hair? We'll have to fix that later. Anyway, you're probably wonderin' why
I'm here. Thing is, I have another
favor to ask. You cool?  ...OHHH YEAH! That's what I'm talkin'
about. So check it: I realized that my technique just
doesn't have the wild edge it needs. I need
to add a little spice back into the mix!  You know what I'm talkin' about, right?
That  dangerous rebel style ! If I could lay my eyes on one of those
 Iodrome  cats, I bet that'd bring
my wildness to the max! The foxy mama in green already knows
the lowdown. The password is
  " Bad Hair Day: Iodrome ," ya dig?  Just remember to bring those Antidotes,
and you'll be all gravy, baby.  I'll check ya later, then.
Good lookin' out, baby!  OHHH YEAH!
The way you took care of that Iodrome cat
really got my wild side goin' again! Thanks to you, I'm wilder than ever! I'm
a cool cat, I'm a wild cat. *rrrar*
You did me a solid, baby.  But it still feels like I'm missin'
somethin' ...I just can't put my
paw on it at the moment. I'll let you know when it comes to me,
ya dig? Stay fresh, baby!  What's shakin', baby?
You lookin' good today! Except your hair.
I don't know WHAT'S goin' on up there.  Anyway, you're probably wonderin' why
I'm here. Truth is, I have another
favor to ask, ya feel me?  ...OHHH YEAH! That's what I'm talkin'
about. So check it: I realized that my technique's
just not fresh enough. I need to
add some originality back into the mix! You know what I'm talkin' about, right?
That  righteous straight style  ! If I could lay my eyes on one of those
 Monoblos   cats, I bet that'd bring
my freshness to the max!  The foxy mama in green already knows
the skinny. The password is
 " Bad Hair Day: Monoblos  ," ya dig?  Just remember to bring those Sonic Bombs,
and you'll be all gravy, baby.  I'll check ya later.
Good lookin' out!  OHHH YEAH!
The way you took care of that Monoblos cat
really brought the freshness into my life!  Thanks to you, I'm fresher than ever!
Fresh down to the bone, ya feel me?
You did me a solid, baby. But it still feels like I'm missin'
somethin'... I just can't put my
paw on it at the moment. I'll let you know when it comes to me,
ya dig? Stay funky, baby!  Man, this 'fro, it's so heavy,
it feels like my neck is-- ...Oh! Didn't see you there, hot stuff!
You look groovy today! Yes, even your
hair! *wink*  I guess I don't need to explain why
I'm here, right? Then let's boogie. I realized that I'm just missin' one last
thing: electricity! ...Say what? No, not real electricity!
I mean the power needed to blow peoples'
minds, ya dig?  You know what I'm talkin' about, right?
That  super shockin' golden style ! If I could lay my eyes on one of those
 Rajang   cats, I bet I could
electrify hunters' minds with my style!  The foxy mama in green already knows
the skinny. The password is
 " Advanced: Bad Hair Rajang ," ya feel me?  It's an   Urgent Quest  , 'kay?
I'll check ya later, then.
Good lookin' out, baby!  OOOOOHHH YEAAAH!
The way you took care of that Rajang cat
was outta sight!  Thanks to you, I'm more electrifying than
ever! Electrifying to the bone, ya feel
me? You did me a solid, baby. Now that my soul is whole again, I'm
afraid it's time for me to hit the road. It's a drag I won't be seeing you anymore --
it was always a trip to see that funky hair
of yours.  But duty calls. There are hunters out
there with horrible hairdos that need
my help, ya dig?  Here, I got you a   Cool Afro
to remember me by. Wear it whenever you
have a bad hair day...so every day.  Relax! I'm just jivin'!
Stay cool, baby, Stay cool.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC116 (Minegarde Sweetheart).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC116 (Minegarde Sweetheart).txt
SIZE: 4206 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:05:02
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: d70f46a731f1f8ab8ab5dc2cad99d4f66b54450951b10a7e5f75ea5ab1dcf654
================================================================================

﻿Hmm...I'd say mine are about the size
of apples. No wait, maybe oranges?  No...that's not right either. I'll guess
just have to compare them with the real
thing. Oh, hello! Don't mind me, I was just
thinking out loud. What can I do for ya? Huh. So the Jumbo girl has ones the size
of Tiny Crab Pearls... Now that I think about it, they did
seem about that size last time I
ran into her at the public bath. Well, that's a load off my back!  You up for a Gold Rathian hunt?
Of course you are!  Now remember, Gold Rathians are
a rare species. They're on a totally different level
than normal Rathians, so make
sure you're well-prepared! When you're ready, take a look
at the Event Quests at the Quest
Counter, 'kay? Good luck! If you ever want to switch out your
housekeeper with one of us, select "Change
Housekeeper" in the Room Service menu. So you know, I'm the Minegarde Sweetheart,
the one in blue is the Tanzia Sweetheart,
and see the small one over there?  She's the Jumbo Sweetheart.
Don't get us mixed up, 'kay?
Because we HATE that.  By the way, it looks like a Gold Rathian
has been spotted.  If you feel gold fever coming on,
take a look at the Event Quests
at the Quest Counter, 'kay? Ugh...I don't understand why the Jumbo girl
is being so shy about it. It would seriously
just take a minute to compare them...Yeesh.  Oh! Hello there, Hunter. Did you by any
chance talk to the Jumbo girl and the Tanzia
girl already?  I handle all the requests for the Minegarde
Guild. I'm also just a tad older than those
other two.  ...And yet, the Jumbo girl won't show me
her  you-know-whats   at all!
I'm her senior, gosh darn it!  Then we've got the Tanzia girl being all
over-confident that hers are bigger...
so she doesn't show me either!  What is it with girls these days?!
I mean, aren't you curious how big
they are? I'm sure everybody is. I mean, come on,
curiosity is only normal. Having said that, I have a favor to ask,
Hunter!  ...Huh? You have a feeling you know what
I'm going to ask? You're a sharp one,
Hunter. I'll give you that!  So! I have a Quest for you that's as
big as my you-know-whats!  If I had to compare mine to a monster,
they'd definitely be like,   Gold
Rathian class! ... ...You don't believe me do you? I can
tell by the look on your face.  I'll tell you what then! You hunt that
Gold Rathian, and I'll show them to you! Then after you've had a nice long look,
you just try and tell me they're not
Gold Rathian class!  Take a look at the Event Quests at the
Quest Counter when you're ready. I've named the quest
 " Bonus: A Girl's Gumption  ." I hope
you're ready to be proven wrong, Hunter!  *Sigh*
I can't believe the Jumbo girl's are the
biggest. And I call myself their senior...  Oh, welcome back. I'm sorry. I know I said
we'd wait until you got back, but we just
couldn't wait to show them to each other.  While you were out on the hunt, I couldn't
wait any longer. The three of us took it
off and compared each others'.  The Jumbo girl took some convincing, but in
the end she agreed to show us. I'm
still shocked at how big hers are! What's worse is I lost to the youngest
of us! I was sure that my  corns  were
AT LEAST as big as hers!  ...Huh? Yeah, corns. You know, foot corns?
When you stand as much as we do, getting
corns on your feet is part of the job.  ...I don't even want to KNOW what YOU were
thinking about this whole time.  Oh, I forgot! I said I'd show them to you
once you finished that last quest. Let me
just take my shoes off... Huh? You sure you don't want to see them?
Okay, your loss.
You seemed so excited before...  Anyway, foot corns aside, you've been very
helpful. Sooo, we'd like to return the favor
by helping out with your  housekeeping  ! When you're back at your house,
talk to your Housekeeper and
select "Change Housekeeper." You'll see all of us there, so just select
which one of us you want to help with the
housekeeping, and we'll head on over, 'kay?  Just let me know if you want to take
a look at my corns sometime, 'kay? Oh, on another note, we've got another
Gold Rathian sighting. Check the Event Quests
at the Quest Counter if you're interested!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC117 (Yukumo Sweetheart).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC117 (Yukumo Sweetheart).txt
SIZE: 3075 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:06:44
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: aeefbe12eb0de4c40c0fbd1022d49bb243a68a4241a3b676784020298dd9d85d
================================================================================

﻿Howdy, Hunter! I don't suppose you're
still, um, interested in slaying the
Seregios, are you? YOU ARE! Alright! Check out the High
Questatrix's Event Quests. So, uh, thanks, and good luck
not getting killed! You know...I was thinking...
If you're interested... I could
come help you with your housekeeping!  Just go to your house and select
"Yukumo Sweetheart" from the Room
Service menu...if you want to, I mean. Oh, and, um, if you're not busy...
ANOTHER Seregios has shown up in the
Great Sea. I know, right! Anyway. Event Quest added. You know
what to do.
Good luck not getting eaten!  Howdy, Hunter!
Wait! You're not, um, THAT hunter,
are you?! You are?! *giggle*  Me? Oh, I'm just a Guild receptionist
from Yukumo. *blush*
An honor to meet you!  I don't want to seem like some giggly Guild
girl (*giggle*) but The Transpurrter and
Drink Seller are always talking about you! They said you never fail to help someone
with a request, no matter how daunting the
task. Is that, um, true?  Because, it's just, um, that I've got
a little request of my own! And I thought
maybe you could...um, if it's not too much... You'll help! Alright! Let me explain.
Recently, Yukumo has been PACKED
with travelers. They can't stay away!  Oh, sure, it's great for tourism, but the
visitors sure do eat and drink a lot!
There's barely enough food to go round. You know what I think would help?
Yup, you know what I'm talking about:
a large   cargo ferry ! Then we'd have no problem getting the
supplies we need into the village.  The village chief liked my idea too. *blush*
So we're ready to sail!
Well, almost ready...  You see, the thing is...there's a...
um...a huge monster blocking the route!  Would you be able to...you know...
save Yukumo by slaying the
  Seregios   that's blocking the way?!  You would! Alright! Check out the High
Questatrix's Event Quests. The request's
called  " Bonus: A Bigger Boat  ."  Oh, um, you know how to use the ballista and
cannons, right? Of course you do!
You're THE hunter! Anyway, thanks and, um, good
luck not getting pulverized! Howdy, Hunter!
I just want to say, thanks. You slaying
that Seregios meant a lot to me. After you cleared the route, the
cargo ferry set sail without
incident. ...But, things didn't go the way we
thought! You see, word of the
cargo ferry started spreading.  Soon after, hot spring enthusiasts,
hunters, adventurers...
they all started sneaking on! That's right: The cargo ferry has
become a regular ferry for tourists
headed to Yukumo. I heard they've even got tour packages
planned out. The tourists are going to
be pouring into Yukumo now! Not exactly what I'd planned, but,
well, everyone seems to be happy
with it!  But, um, how can I ever repay you?
...I know! How about I help with your
 housekeeping  ? If you're interested, speak with
your housekeeper and select "Yukumo
Sweetheart" under "Change Housekeeper."  So, um, thanks again! *blush*
Hopefully no more Seregios come
and block the route again.  But just in case, don't go too far!
*giggle*



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC118 (Tanzia Sweetheart).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC118 (Tanzia Sweetheart).txt
SIZE: 2508 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:08:26
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: c4c35502f620295a903b60dee25ea55fe1074df3070cc70ee197c154f2c7cd22
================================================================================

﻿Wowie, so this is the Elder Hall! It's
bigger than I'd imagined. Definitely
unlike anything back in Port Tanzia.  And the big dude in the back must be
His Immenseness! I can't
believe he's right there, in the flesh! ...I imagined him to be smaller for some
reason, though.  

Ready to find that Large Wyvern Tear so
I can get my all-I-can-eat on?  Here's a hint: Large Wyvern Tears are
usually found around areas where Brachydios
slime molds have exploded.  Oh, and you didn't forget, did you?
You can find this request in the
Event Quests.  

I'm dying here, Hunter.
You've gotta help me out!

*drools*  Yesss! This Large Wyvern Tear is
the perfect size for me. Victory
will soon be mine! Mwahaha! Tanzinya Grill, here I come! I might
as well make it a big celebration. Hmm...who to invite... Well, the girls
will be there since they'll be paying. Then there's the Guildmaster, Neko, the
Argosy Captain, and I guess I should
invite some of the villagers...  And you, of course!
You HAVE to try the Tanzian Ale!  

The Minegarde girl is levelheaded for
the most part, but every now and then
something happens and she FLIPS OUT!  Anyway, it was kinda funny this time
around, so I won't complain. 

Ahoy, Hunter! No need to introduce
yourself -- the girl from Jumbo
Village told me ALL about you. ...Oh! You wanted to know who I am?
I usually handle all the requests in
Port Tanzia. Nice to meet ya!  Clever girl, that Jumbo one. She came up
with the plan: If we each found something
about the size of our you-know-whats...  ...we'd be able to compare each other's
sizes without having to show each other
the real thing! You want to help? Great!
Can you help me find something about
the size of my you-know-whats?  I THINK I've got the Jumbo girl beat,
and I refuse to lose to that Minegarde
girl!  ...What's this all about?
Well, we have this bet going... ...And the winner gets a free
all-you-can-eat dinner at The Tanzinya Grill!
At the losers' expense, of course. Heh heh. Mmm...they have that famous Tanzia Chowder.
Not to mention their Tanzian Ale! I'm starting
to dribble just thinking about it! That's why I NEED to win this bet, Hunter. If
you could find a  Large Wyvern Tear , I could
show those two who's got the biggest! I hear they're easy to find around areas
where Brachydios slime molds have exploded.
Easy for a big, strong hunter like you, right? I've put in the request as an Event Quest
called  " Bonus: A Maiden's Mission ."  Please hurry! I'm STARVING.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC119 (Cha-Cha).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC119 (Cha-Cha).txt
SIZE: 1265 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:10:12
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: e2e006eabf2588104c6c8efd1cc3d5f91f4220c3ad4b8279acdf8c5c1fe1c15a
================================================================================

﻿You go break-break Kecha Wacha
and Ash Kecha Wacha ears!  Cha-check Event Quest called
"Bonus: Mystical Mask." You break-break
ears and steal Cha-Cha's mask back!  Oh, and laka-look for Moga Sweetheart too!
If Hunter cannot find mask and Moga
Sweetheart, I blame Kayamba. Remember to initiate Quest yourself!
Best of luck-luck! 

This mask for Cha-Cha! Not for Kayamba!
Kayamba find own mask-alaka!  Cha-cha-cha-daaa! 

Where you been? Cha-Cha waiting
laka-long time! Cha-Cha having bad day. Cha-Cha drop
masks somewhere, and   two monsters
steal masks  ! ...Plus, fart-fart smell extra bad today.
I blame Kayamba.  ...Cha-wha? Where is Sweetheart?  ...
Chmm... Now that Hunter mentions, Sweetheart is
nowhere in sight-sight. How shaka-strange. Moga Sweetheart was
next to Cha-Cha when looking for masks.  ... Ah-cha! You look-look like dependable
hunter. You go find stolen masks and
missing Moga Sweetheart for Cha-Cha. Cha-Cha thinks masks are  stuck on ears
of Kecha Wacha and Ash Kecha Wacha!  Hunter need to  break-break both ears
to get back-alaka masks! Moga Sweetheart
sure to be there too. Cha-check Event Quest called
 " Bonus: Mystical Mask  ."  If Hunter fails, I blame Kayamba. Remember to
initiate Quest yourself! Best of luck-luck!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC120 (Moga Sweetheart).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC120 (Moga Sweetheart).txt
SIZE: 3352 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:11:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: b10f91354963852099e09e66c63e32ad2c48683719b360d3e0a9605abaed01b9
================================================================================

﻿Who woulda thunk it! The mask those
two are looking for is right here!  As soon as you tell them that, I'm sure
they'll both come scurrying back. Give 'em a kick in the butt for me
and knock some sense into those two,
will you? The request is an Event Quest called
"Bonus: Running With the Devil"...
Just in case you forgot.  Remember, you personally need to
initiate the Quest, not one of your
hunter pals! Look at them. They've been at it for
a while now... You sure you gave them
a nice hard kick in the butt?  ...No, no, I believe you! No need
to show me how! They just don't
know when to let up.  Anyway, if you ever need any help
with your Housekeeping, don't
hesitate to ask.  Just speak with your housekeeper, and
select me under "Change Housekeeper";
I'll come over right away!  In the meantime, the
"Bonus: Running With the Devil" Event Quest
is available for you anytime!  Ah, Hunter! Sorry you
got involved in all this.
Let me explain. I was lonely, okay?
LOOOONELY.  So I decided to come here to visit a friend
from receptionist training. She's absolutely
bonkers about monsters.  If you start a conversation about Gigginox,
you'll never hear the end of it. Not even
joking. Anyway, traveling alone is dangerous for
a beautiful girl like myself, right? So
I asked those two to be my   bodyguards  . In hindsight, they probably weren't the best
choice for bodyguards... ...They ran off looking for some mask! The
silliest part is I have the mask   right here  !
I stumbled on it after we got separated.  They think the mask is still out there
somewhere and it seems they have run
off looking for it again. I think they headed in the direction
of the   Volcanic Hollow . I would go after
them myself, but you know... There's kind of a   huge monster  
there. Which sort of complicates things. Soooo, I need your help finding them and
bringing them back! I bet you'll find
them fighting around the Volcanic Hollow.  Give'em a good hard kick in the butt and
bring them back, will you? I've put in
the request as an Event Quest.  It's called   " Bonus: Running With the Devil "!
Don't forget, you personally have to initiate
the Quest, okay? Not your friends! Careful out there, it can get a bit toasty.
Goodbye and good luck!  A million thanks, Hunter!
Those two rascals are back safe and sound.  And it seems like they finally
agreed what to do about the mask.
Everything is settled! ...Or it would be, if they weren't now
fighting over a completely new mask! Ever
feel your life is one long Sisyphean task...?  But enough about that. I got you
a  few things   to thank you for your
help!  First, here's the   Ultimate Mask  those
two pests where fighting over this whole
time. They said they don't need it anymore now
that they've found a new mask to play with,
so it's all yours! I'm sure you have some  Palico Equipment  
that it would go perfectly with! Now for your second gift...me! Since I
decided to stick around for a while, I
thought I could   help with your Housekeeping ! Whenever you want me to come over and
help, speak to your housekeeper and
select me under "Change Housekeeper." And another thing: the
"Bonus: Running With the Devil" Event Quest
is available for you to do anytime!  Do say hello to my friend for me, will you?
Tell her I said, "Giggity Gigginox!"



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC121 (Argosy Captain).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC121 (Argosy Captain).txt
SIZE: 2607 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:13:08
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0349e06bd2a888b62f29e29f344617bb8dd54eaed1a316a59b683c7fc885adcb
================================================================================

﻿De wa, I trust you with
Zamtrios hunt.  If you succeed in "Puffer Fish"
Quest, I can set sail with safety.  Now, good hunting! The sea breeze
will not wait long! Yoroshiku!  

If you plan to hunt with your
nakama, your friends, you must
master Dirty Fencing.  Do so, and you shall be very
ninki with other hunters! Yes,
you'll be very popular indeed!  

Have you confidence in your kenjutsu?
"Kenjutsu" means swordsmanship! I, too, know way of sword. Study hard,
master Dirty Fencing. Was big hit back
in the day, you know? 

If you plan to hunt with your
nakama, your friends, you must
master Dirty Fencing.  Do so, and you shall be very
ninki with other hunters! Yes,
you'll be very popular indeed!  

Greetings! You must be rumored hunter!
Wherever the Arluq ship sails,
I hear talk of your adventures. I am  Argosy Captain  . I come to
legendary lost village in search of
mezurashii goods. "Mezurashii" means rare!  This is wonderful village, yes?
Subarashii! Many blessings of nature here,
like Moga Village. But very difficult to find.
To find village, one must become maigo.
"Maigo" means lost! So, I let   Zamtrios   chase me
until I become maigo. With luck,
I found lost village.  But now I am, how you say, in pinch?
Zamtrios is shitsukoi! "Shitsukoi" means
persistent! I cannot set sail.  So I need your help. Will you hunt
Zamtrios so I can set sail again?  I give request to Guildmarm already.
I name it  " Puffer Fish ."  De wa, please hunt Zamtrios before the
sea breeze leaves me behind! Yoroshiku!
That means please! Please! 

Okaerinasai! Welcome back!
You live up to name, Hunter. Well done
hunting Zamtrios. Thanks to you, I can begin preparation
to set sail once again. Arigato! But, I forgot about big hole in ship
after Zamtrios chase. Zannen...  I will need to stay a while to make
repairs. I'm sure the sea breeze can
wait a little longer, ha ha ha!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC122 (Neko).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC122 (Neko).txt
SIZE: 2256 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:14:30
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 1565ba7fb4ae7d4c9c74c32047c2f3e31e9928bd503e97f40203c1f7fc3413a9
================================================================================

﻿Salutations, hunter!
You stand before Argosy Captain's
finest crewman.  They call me Tiger of Far East, Neko.
"Neko" means tiger! Sorta.  Neko perform important tasks like swabbing
of poop deck and lifting of boxes.
Veeery important work. Juyo, juyo!  

Argosy Captain say, "The sea breeze
beckons!" and meddle in Zamtrios' business. Next thing Neko knows,
we here in lost village. All Captain's plan! Neko still has much to
learn from Argosy Captain. 

Salutations, hunter!
You stand before Argosy Captain's
finest crewman.  They call me Tiger of Far East, Neko.
"Neko" means tiger! Sorta.  Neko perform important tasks like swabbing
of poop deck and lifting of boxes.
Veeery important work. Juyo, juyo!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC123 (Felcote).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC123 (Felcote).txt
SIZE: 5732 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:16:22
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 40ee87d2c6d5b689f3aaa5b38cce53d74e32a14668cc6ef2a9d2314c886d87a0
================================================================================

﻿The mission is not easy, but you will
be doing a great service by slaying
that Yian Garuga. You can review the mission intelligence in
the Event Quest at the High-rank Quest
Counter.  Oh, and you mustn't forget: This
mission is top secret. Only you
yourself may initiate the Quest. Show me that you possess courage, and
prove to me you are a bona fide hunter. The mission is a perilous one, but you
will be doing a great service by slaying
that Akantor. You can review the mission intelligence in
the Event Quest at the High-rank Quest
Counter. The codename's "Bonus: Code Black."  Show me how much grit you have, and prove
to me you are a bona fide hunter. It is a dangerous mission to undertake,
but you will be doing a great service
by slaying that Ukanlos.  You can review the mission intelligence in
the Event Quest at the High-rank Quest
Counter. The codename's "Bonus: Code White."  Show me your valor, and prove to
me you are a bona fide hunter. One day, Lil Sis came to me and
said she wanted to be just like me
when she grew up.  But to do so, she must train
under a hunter as a Palico first.  I admire her spirit, but as you are
aware, Quests hold many dangers.  I could not let her train under just
any hunter. That is why I am thankful
I found you, dear Hunter.  It is a relief to know that she
is in the hands of such a capable
hunter. Oh! I have just received intelligence
that another Ukanlos has been sighted.
Why not take Lil Sis along?  Just promise me you'll keep her safe. Hmm... Might you be the hunter that
has set the town abuzz of late? Not exactly what I was expecting...but
I suppose you pass muster. I hope you
will be so kind as to show me your strength. But perhaps I should introduce myself
first. My name is...a secret.
But I am known to many as   Felcote . Now, if I may cut to the chase, I would
like to ask for your assistance with
a certain Quest. However, the particulars of said Quest
are confidential, and must be handled
with the utmost secrecy. If this information were to leak to
the public...well, the consequences
would be disastrous.  Having said that... Do you have the   courage
to face an aggressive, cunning beast, the
likes of which you've never faced before?  If so, I challenge you to hunt a
 Yian Garuga  and prove that your
courage is as real as they say.  We have somehow managed to contain the
beast in the   Arena , but we are unable
to get close to it. It is a problematic situation, and
as such needs to be dealt with swiftly.  You will find the necessary intelligence
in the Event Quests section at the
High-rank Quest Counter.  The codename for this Quest is
 " Bonus: Code Purple  ."
You would do well to remember it.  And do not forget, Hunter, this mission is
top secret. You  must initiate the Quest
yourself  . Are you ready? Because your
mission has already begun.
I wish you the best of luck, dear Hunter.  Hmm, acceptable, yes.
You are progressing nicely, Hunter. Having confirmed with my own eyes the
courage within you, I have decided that
you are ready to undertake the next Quest.  Naturally, this Quest too is
classified, and you must not
speak a word of it to anyone. Do I have your word? ...Good. Now then... Do you possess the  grit  
to withstand the scorching heat of
the fieriest isle in all the land?  If so, I humbly request that you go forth and
slay the  Akantor  that has
shown itself on   Ingle Isle  . The neighboring nations have expressed
their concerns, but as our forces are
unable to approach it, we need your help.  The creature must be slain before the public
become aware and panic breaks out.
Will you lend us your strength, Hunter? As before, you will be briefed at the
High-rank Quest Counter. The Event Quest
codename is  " Bonus: Code Black ."  Take care and good luck, dear Hunter. Ah, the agent who defeated Akantor.
Forgive my haste, but I'm afraid we
must proceed to the next mission. To be frank, I am reluctant to introduce
this Quest to you; however, it is my duty,
and I must do what I must.  Do not misunderstand. I do not doubt your
abilities; it is just I would not wish this Quest
upon anyone due to the danger involved. I trust you understand that this
Quest too is highly confidential.
Do you understand? Very well... For this mission you must possess
the  valor  to make your way through the
coldest field in the land.  We have received intelligence that an
  Ukanlos  has appeared in the vicinity
of the  Polar Field . As before, your briefing is waiting at
the High-rank Quest Counter. You would
do well to remember that. The Event Quest codename is
  " Bonus: Code White ."  Do not be reckless, Hunter.
This creature is not like the rest.
I implore you to use caution. Well, it seems that you truly
are a bona fide hunter. To complete my Quests with such finesse...
I'm impressed, Hunter.
Very impressed. Did you spot the pattern?
The three Quests you completed all
have something in common.  They each tested a specific virtue:
courage, grit, and valor; all of which
you have proved you possess. Yes, you are the Hunter I've been waiting
for. I have faith that you, and only you,
can carry out this final request of mine. I humbly ask that you take  my Lil Sis  
as an apprentice.  ... Hunter, did you hear me? I request that
you train my sister as a Palico.
Only you can do this!  The   courage  to face her recklessness,
the  grit   to withstand her nonsense,
the   valor  to stand up to her unrestraint...  You have all the virtues needed to
turn her into a first-rate Palico.
This is my final request, dear Hunter.  I have faith that you will make a
fine Palico out of her!
Now go; let the training begin.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC124 (Instructor).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC124 (Instructor).txt
SIZE: 6331 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:18:00
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: ad2d9c6df1db71ba45f2270629e3796ecec644bb51dd0689cffeec7b9bceeba2
================================================================================

﻿You still here? Well get goin'!
There's riches to be made!  The Event Quest is called
"Bonus: Awaken!." Don't forget
to initiate the Quest yourself.  Now go slay those 10 Desert
Seltas! Bwa, ha ha ha!  I remember a time when I was broke as
dirt. If I recall correctly, I was
trying to start a business in ale. If I'd only known then where the real
money was! Well, better late than never,
I guess. Bwa, ha ha ha!  Remember, we need that Rathian tail in
good condition. No weapons over Rarity 1!
And no items!  The Event Quest is called
"Bonus: Take Flight!." Don't forget
to initiate the quest yourself. We can't keep the world waiting too
long, Hunter. We need to get that Dah'ren
Mohran swimwear on the shelves ASAP.  The Event Quest is called
"Bonus: Into Eternity!." Don't forget
to initiate the quest yourself. Oh, one more thing. They say valuable
ore grows on Dah'ren Mohran's back.
With any luck, maybe you'll find some!  Bwa, ha ha ha! There's nothing quite like
the hunter life! I went hunting recently
for the first time in a long time. Boy am I rusty! Just like that I found
myself on the wagon back to camp three
times! I must be getting old... Bwa ha ha ha! By the way, the Event Quest
"Bonus: Into Eternity!" is available any
time you feel up for it. Well then, back to working myself
out of crippling poverty.
Bwa ha ha ha! Hm? Who do we have here?  Oh!
Scraping your living as a hunter, eh? (This one looks slower than
a Slagtoth...
Could be my chance to make some zenny.) Hah! Then you're in luck!
You just found the world's greatest
  hunting instructor  ! I've traveled all over the globe
instructing hunters just like you.
I'm sure you've heard of me.  Being as great as I am, business was,
naturally, good. I was swimming
in zenny, literally!  But then I was swindled by
a bunch of low-down, dirty,
good-for-nothing pirates.  Now I'm the world's brokest hunting
instructor... Anyway, listen to this, Hunter:
Shortly after arriving here, I heard
about this once-in-a-career opportunity. What do you know about ladies' fashion? Oh, yes, I see. Well, as you surely know,
  Desert Seltas  sandals are HOT right now. And what do you need to make Desert Seltas
sandals? That's right -- Desert Seltas
materials!  If I can get my hands on some of those,
they'll be THROWING zenny at me!
Oh, did I say "me"? I meant, "us," of course.  Anyway, I'll handle the business side of
things, so you handle the hunting. Deal? We'll need at least   10 Desert Seltas  
before we can make any good money,
but I've drawn up a   plan  . I'll fill you in when you're out on the
Quest. Follow my instructions and
we'll have those 10 in no time! You'll find an Event Quest called
  " Bonus: Awaken!  ."
Make sure you initiate it yourself!  Mmm...you smell it? That's the smell of
SUCCESS! We're gonna be rich, Hunter!
Rich! Here's a zenny to seal our deal.  Bwa, ha ha ha!  Bwa, ha ha ha!
You won't BELIEVE how much they paid
for those Desert Seltas materials!  I'm moving up in the world, Hunter.
Up, and up, and up, and up!
Bwa, ha ha ha!  (Hmm...this hunter's more
useful than I thought.
Soon I'll have zenny out the wazoo!) But I'm not satisfied with this pittance. And I
know you're not either, are you? ARE YOU?!
I knew it! Let's build this business up. It seems a queen from some faraway
castle is gaga about clutch bags made
from   Rathian tail parts  . ...Hm? What's a clutch bag?
How should I know? I'm a hunting
instructor not a bag expert. All you need to know is that you've
got a Rathian to hunt.
Bwa, ha ha ha! But this time, I need to set few ground
rules. You can't use a weapon higher
than   Rarity 1  . And no  items ! ...Why all the new rules? Well we can't
make the REAL zenny without delivering
top-quality tail.  Do you have any idea what Barrel Bomb
soot and Sword slashes do the price
of fashion materials on the open market?  But don't worry, I've got you covered.
I've prepared a  special item   to help
slice that tail clean off. Check out the Event Quest called
 " Bonus: Take Flight! ."
And make sure you initiate it yourself!  Mmm... I can smell it now -- that sweet, sweet
smell. Here's a zenny for luck. Bring back
that tail in mint condition, you hear?  Bwa, ha ha ha!  "Jackpot!" Would that adequately describe
the money I was paid for those tails? You
know, I think it would! Bwa, ha ha ha!  (This hunter is making me rich!
Nothing will stop me! NOTHING!
Bwa, ha ha ha!)  Shh! ...You hear that? That's the sound of
more MONEY, Hunter! It's calling to us!  Hunter, it's time we stopped following
trends and started making them.  I have an idea for a  brand new item  
that's sure to be a hit. You ready for this? ... Swimwear made from Dah'ren Mohran
materials ! Bwa, ha ha ha! Yes, I know!
You wish you'd thought of it first, don't you?  ...Hm? Comfort? Oh, Hunter.
This isn't about comfort, it's about fashion.
Maybe you should leave the thinking to me.  All you need to know is that we have a
Dah'ren Mohran to hunt! And by "we," I
mean "you." Bwa, ha ha ha!  Being a nice guy, I invested some of my own
zenny in a sandskiff to help you on the hunt.
I named it "The Instructor," after yours truly. There's an Event Quest called
  " Bonus: Into Eternity! "
Make sure you initiate it yourself. Mmm...that smell. It smells like...success.
Here's a zenny for the boat fare.
Try not to scratch her out there, eh? Bwa, ha ha ha!  Bwa, ha ha ha! Hunter, I have news!
It finally happened! I've done it!  ...I've gone  bankrupt  . I put everything into making that
Dah'ren Mohran swimwear... I even
took out a few loans. But it didn't sell at all!
From boom to bust in an instant!
Bwa, ha...ha...haaaaah. ...What's that?
You knew it wouldn't sell?
Then why didn't you say something?!  ...You did? Oh. I must have been
daydreaming about swimming in zenny
when you said it. Bwa, ha ha ha! Well, no use dwelling on the past.
Here, this last zenny is all I have for
you. Maybe you'll have more luck than me.  At least I still have "The Instructor"!
Maybe I'll use it on few quests to
dig myself out of my crippling poverty.  If you ever want to undertake
"Bonus: Into Eternity!" again, you can
find it in the Event Quests. By the way, before you go...
Can you spare a few zenny?
Bwa, ha ha ha!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC125 (Kayamba).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC125 (Kayamba).txt
SIZE: 1388 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:19:44
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 7cd672e1b12fe598116544da9714f520f21277bc0dd75075826c5ac8e84f135f
================================================================================

﻿Hey, minion! Stop slacking and go cut
Congalala tail! Event Quest name
"Bonus: Miracle Mask."
Make sure you, minion, initiate the Quest!  Kayamba need that mask!
Oh, and please find Moga lady, too. 

Not Kayamba's fault! Everything
happen because Cha-Cha screw up!  If you believe idiot Cha-Cha,
then you idiot too! Stupid Cha-Cha! Keep dirty hands off
Kayamba's mask! Yam-ba! Yam-BA!  

*Sob*
*Sob* Kayamba lonely...
Where everyone go?  ...Yam-ba?
You! Minion! Me  Kayamba ! You minion!
...Ba? Kayamba not lonely! That just minion's
imagination!  Kayamba looking for   Moga Guild lady
and stupid   Cha-Cha . Kayamba traveling
with them since few days ago. Moga lady say "I want to go Dundorma!" so
Kayamba and Cha-Cha escort Moga
lady. But something big happen!
Kayamba find  a mask   stuck to tail of
Congalala!  Kayamba try to get mask, but instead get
chased by Congalala...and Kayamba get
separated from Moga lady and Cha-Cha.  If not for stupid Cha-Cha, mask
already be in Kayamba's hands!  ...You, minion! You have a nice hunter face.
Will you bring Moga lady back? ...And perhaps bring mask
back too? Mask on
  Congalala's tail  ! Kayamba want minion to  break Congalala
tail   and get mask!  Moga lady should be in same place as
Congalala. Event Quest name
 " Bonus: Miracle Mask "!  Make sure you, minion, initiate the Quest!
Kayamba wish you good luck!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC126 (Jumbo Village Chief).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC126 (Jumbo Village Chief).txt
SIZE: 4585 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:21:18
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: ec7b01d37ae786f4a6e11fde3207c1f9dc63f98e58459eeaf30c47f7be77ad04
================================================================================

﻿Remember, you'll find the Remobras near
Heaven's Mount. The Event Quest is called
"Bonus: A Spreading Scourge." Stop by the Quest Counter when you're
ready. And don't forget to initiate
the Quest yourself, okay? It's a scary thought knowing the
Chameleos is so close. If we don't act
fast, Dundorma will be in big trouble.  They've been able to contain the beast in
the Battlequarters. The rest is up to you.  When you're ready, initiate the Event Quest
called "Bonus: Mist Amid the Ruins" at the
Quest Counter. Ho ho! Thanks for handling that Chameleos,
friend. I snuck a peak at the battle --
terrifying!  By the way, I tried talking to my old friend
the Legendary Artisan...but he was acting
strangely. Know anything about it? His cheeks were puffed up red as if he
was worked up about something.
I've never seen him like that before... Ah, my friend. Did you do it?
Did you slay that Fatalis? Incredible.
I must write my brother and let him know.  ...Hm? Oh, my brother lives back in our
hometown of Cathar. He'd want to hear
about news like this. If you ever have a chance to visit Cathar,
you should pay my brother a visit.
I'm sure he'd welcome you.  Ho! You're that Hunter everyone in
Dundorma's been talking about, aren't
you? This must be my lucky day.  I'm in need of someone with your skills...
Oh! Where are my manners? I'm the chief
of a little place called Jumbo Village.  ...Well, I was the chief.
Now I'm more of a wanderer. I travel the world, searching for and
surveying land so that I can find
a place to build a new community. Hey...as a hunter you must be quite the
seasoned traveler yourself. Tell me, have
you ever come across these words? " When disaster covers the heavens,
Mist shall creep upon the ancient land,
The kingless throne, a garden for the hunt  ."  ...
Nothing, eh? I was afraid you might say that. I found these words inscribed on a stone
slate while surveying a mountain around
the area of  Heaven's Mount  . I stumbled on a curious slate and
picked it up to inspect, and that's
when I saw it...  A cave full of tens, no...hundreds of
  Remobras  ! I've seen many things in my travels,
but never anything like that. Gives me
the chills just thinking about it! *brrr!*  I couldn't ask you to get rid of ALL of them,
could I? Could I?! No, no. That's too much. But perhaps you could
  thin out their numbers  ? ...Why? Well, perhaps I am overthinking this,
but Remobras are known as " envoys to
disaster  ." Plus, they're flying wyverns.  The inscription starts out, "When disaster
covers the heavens." That's too much of a
coincidence for me.  I can't help but think the inscription
is hinting at some kind of catastrophe.
Especially with the second line: " Mist shall creep upon the ancient land  ."
It could be a prophecy, don't ya think?
If Remobra are the "disaster," the "mist" is...  ... ...Ha, ha ha! Who believes in all that stuff?
They're just words on an old rock, right? Regardless, that swarm of Remobra is
preventing me from continuing my work.
What do you say?  Will you help me out, friend? I've put in a request at the Quest Counter.
The Event Quest is called
  " Bonus: A Spreading Scourge  ."  Be sure that you're the
one to initiate it, okay? Oh no oh no oh no...
Now I've done it.
What the Gigginox am I gonna do?!  Oh, it's you, friend. Sorry, I'm a bit high-
strung at the moment. I just got word from
the Guild: An   elder dragon   is near the city!  You remember the words inscribed on
that stone slate I told you about?  " When disaster covers the heavens,
Mist shall creep upon the ancient land,
The kingless throne, a garden for the hunt  ."  Well, I worked out that "disaster" referred
to the Remobras, but I couldn't figure out
what "mist" meant...until now! It's the  Chameleos , of course!
Also known as "  elder dragon of the mist  "!
Why didn't I make the connection before?!  As for the rest of the inscription, the
"ancient land" must refer to Dundorma...  Which means the "kingless throne"
must refer to His Immenseness!  It all makes sense now! If only I took the
inscription seriously to begin with, maybe
we could have prevented this calamity.  Yes, yes, you're right. There's no
point dwelling on what could have been.
We need to think of what to do next. I'll write to an old acquaintance of
mine who's well-versed in the mysteries
of the world.  You gather your hunter friends and  take
that Chameleos down  . I've added an Event Quest called
 " Bonus: Mist Amid the Ruins  ."  Let's get to work --
we've got a city to save!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC127 (Legendary Artisan).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC127 (Legendary Artisan).txt
SIZE: 3749 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:26:28
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 7e852ddc8dfb6457470be74fdeca75eca9fe8fa6abd81bb5ef5c61567c284b2b
================================================================================

﻿Ho ho ho!
I never thought I'd live to see
the day Fatalis returned! If you've got the guts, the
Event Quest is called
"Bonus: Total Eclipse." Be ready, Hunter. You might be
young and full of vigor, but it'll take
more than that to win this fight.  Ho ho ho.
You need more Fatalis
materials, you say? If luck is with you, you might catch
another glimpse of the beast someday.
Say, why not check the Event Quests? Ah, I've been waiting for you.
You're the hunter that young feller
wrote about in his letter, ain't you?  That sure is a nice weapon you have.
You must be one mighty fine hunter to
have a weapon like that. Maybe you can help this old man
fulfill an old dream... ...Ah, I'm sorry. I got carried away.
I ain't even introduced myself yet. Folks call me the Legendary Artisan.
There was a time I ran a shop in this town.
Now I spend my days a-wandering... Anyhow, it's good to meet you, Hunter.
Now, about that  stone slate  that was
mentioned in the letter...  I believe our young friend has
misinterpreted its words. Ho ho ho!
...Oh, the folly of youth. I can see how you might THINK that slate's
about the coming of Remobras and Chameleos,
but the slate is incomplete as it is.  Thing is, that slate is missing its   right half  .
Without that, you can't know the
true meaning of its words. But you're in luck! You see, the words of
the right half have been passed down
through the generations of my tribe. The right half tells of the "time" when a
  great threat   will appear. It was thought
the slate's left half would tell of the "place." I searched for the missing half of that slate
for years... To think that whippersnapper
would stumble upon it by chance!  ...Hunter. The "ancient land" and
"kingless throne" do not refer to
Dundorma or His Immenseness.  The "ancient land" refers to the once
prosperous Schrade Kingdom, which was
destroyed by a great catastrophe. The "kingless throne" refers to the lost
kingdom's Castle Schrade, which now lies
in ruins, a ghost of its former self. Now, let me share with you the verse passed
down through the generations of my tribe: " The darkness shall swallow the blue,
And shadow shall conceal the light,
The one of great legend returns. " Ho ho ho. You look mighty puzzled, Hunter.
Let me explain. When put together with the
left half, the words read like this:  "When disaster covers the heavens,
The darkness shall swallow the blue,
Mist shall creep upon the ancient land, And shadow shall conceal the light.
The kingless throne, a garden of the hunt,
The one of great legend returns."  You see, Hunter, the inscription ain't about
Remobras or Chameleos. It's about the
return of the "one of great legend"... Fatalis ! The slate is saying that during the
eclipse, when the old kingdom is covered
in mist, Fatalis will return to Castle Schrade!  All my life I've dreamed of forging
powerful weapons from the materials
of that beast.  Will you slay the Fatalis and make my
old dream finally come true, Hunter?  I put in a request with the Guild
called  " Bonus: Total Eclipse  ."  When you're prepared, accept the Event
Quest to face the dragon of legend. Good
luck, young Hunter. Castle Schrade awaits!  Ho ho ho!
Mighty fine work, Hunter! Mighty fine!
I knew you were one special feller.  You know what, I'm gonna teach that Wyverian
smith in that Caravan of yours my Fatalis
material forging techniques. He's a mighty talented smith.
I'm sure he'll forge you up
something good. And who knows, even if your Fatalis
materials run out, perhaps you'll catch sight
of the beast again someday. A word of advice: Seize the chances you can
while you're young. Check the Event Quests
often. Who knows what opportunities await.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC128 (The Transpurrter).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC128 (The Transpurrter).txt
SIZE: 3676 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:27:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 8c9dd625b05e9477e9d7e5bc38923b391b0e893271729669b03832ac9946687e
================================================================================

﻿I need those 10 secret stashes back
if I'm ever going to help Yukumo with
their preparations... But don't mess up those mangy Melynx too
bad, nya? A  weapon with Rarity 1
or lower  should do the job. Purr-use the High-rank Quest
Counter for a Quest called
  " Bonus: Stash Grab ."  Ah, also  you need to be the one to
initiate   the Quest. For record
purrposes, nya?  Remember: Keep an eye on your items
and try not to get your stuff stolen,
Hunter! Yukumo's hot springs are
a real hit with the tourists
these days, nya.  The town is so packed with people,
it's like there is a street festival
taking place everyday.  Naturally, this means I'm up to my
whiskers in deliveries...  Multiple trips back and forth
everyday are doing a real number
on my barrel.  I might have to think about
purr-chasing a new one soon...  ... ...Ahh! Sorry about that, Hunter.
I just can't stop thinking about
barrels. I'm even DREAMING about them! It's making it hard to distinguish
what's real and what's not... Next
thing I know I'll be sleep-barreling! I had myself another dream, too. It was
a dream of a big cargo ferry that could
deliver a boatful of wares all at once... Hunter! That cargo ferry from my dreams...
it's real! And I hear you made it all
possible. It's true, nya?  Many thanks to you, Hunter. *purr*
Though it ended up as more of a passenger
ferry, it's still good for Yukumo. Besides, I see this as a good
opportunity to improve my delivery
service. Ah, Hunter!
A moment of your time, purrhaps?  Don't look so cynical; I won't
bite. I just want a word, nya? They call me The Transpurrter. Why?
It's obvious, nya? I make my living
transpurrting barrels.  Furr what purr-pose? Well, how else would
your Caravan colleagues get their paws on
the supplies they need? Me and my barrel get packages to wherever
they need to be... But we're not here to
talk about my purrfession. In fact, I'd rather talk about
my purr-oblem. You see, I come from a lil' village
called Yukumo, which has become
something of a holiday hotspot. In fact, I heard a whole host of tourists
are planning to visit Yukumo in the not
too fur future. Naturally, the villagers are running
themselves ragged cleaning the hot
spring and washing the towels and such. I thought I'd do the ol' village
a favor and help deliver the supplies
they need... But I hit a bump in the road...literally! Nya!
I wanted to get the goods to
Yukumo as fast as Melynxly possible...  But in my hurry, I hit a rock in the
road, tripped, and my barrel-bound
wares went everywhere!  And then...something happened.
Something that makes me deeply ashamed...
Nya... A gang of thieving  Melynx  
came and pinched my wares!
Can you believe it? My own kind...  But you know what they say, Hunter:
Revenge is a dish best served by
a hunter with a sharp weapon.  Can you help me deliver the   10 secret
stashes  those mangy Melynx snatched up?  If I know my own kind, they won't give the
goods up willingly, so, Hunter, you're going
to have to smack them around a bit. But don't smack them too hard, nya?
A   weapon with Rarity 1 or lower
should do the job. They may be thieves, but they're still
my own kind. They don't mean any real
harm... It's hard being Melynx...  Anyway, it seems they prey in the Dunes,
so don't furrget your Cool Drinks if you
pay them a visit during the day, nya? Purr-use the High-rank Quest
Counter for the Quest called
  " Bonus: Stash Grab ."  Make sure ya get tha right one, nya?
Also,  you need to be the one to
initiate   the Quest. For record purrposes, nya?
Well, I'll let you get to work, Hunter.
Give those mangy Melynx my regards!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC129 (Drink Seller).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC129 (Drink Seller).txt
SIZE: 3362 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:29:36
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: a47950869d99d7fcadc755b8c87cac176230cfafcbf0324e9df07e32f243a40c
================================================================================

﻿So, Hunter! You will help me, won't you?
WON'T YOU?! PURR-LEASE! My future as a drink seller depends on it.
The Event Quest is called " Bonus: Net Profits  ."
You'll find it at the High-rank Quest Counter.
Oh, and don't tell anyone what the secret
ingredient is. I'd lose my competitive edge.
Don't forget the Bug Nets! *wink*

Hunter... I don't know what to say.
Thanks to your delivery, drink sales have hit an all-time high!
One chug of the bug, and they just can't get enough.
Nya...

Actually, my drinks are a little TOO popular. Now I'm low on ingredients AGAIN!
I really should have thought through my supply chain.
What sort of businessfelyne am I?
...Still, I hear there are plans for a cargo
ferry. Then I could have ingredients sent
to Yukumo directly.
Can you imagine? No more walking! Drinks all round!
Chug the bug! Chug the bug!
Oh, right, SECRET ingredient.
*wink*

Oh, it's mew again...
Oh, no. It's nothing. It's just that...
...the cargo ferry, it...
*sigh*
It turned into a passenger ferry!
There go my plans for a new supply line!
Back to the exhausting traipse for ingredients for me!
...Nya...ha...ha. Nya...
Somehow I knew my dreams of using a
new supply line to kick-start a drink-selling empire were far-fetched.
But I won't give up!
As long as there are thirsty customers, I'll be there to sell them delicious,
soothing, bug-based beverages!
Nya ha ha!

Oh! It's mew, isn't it?
You HAVE to help me!
PURR-LEASE!
Ah, sorry...
Purrhaps I should introduce myself first, nya?
I'm the Drink Seller from Yukumo. The Transpurrter's meowster told me he met a
famed hunter...
...A famed hunter who helps anyone who asks.
Is it true? It means you'll help me, too, nya?
Purr-lease? PURR-LEASE!
Nya?
Yes, it is related to Yukumo's
newfound popularity as a tourist destination.

How did you know? Anyway, the crowds of customers are
good fur business, but they've drunk
up all my drink ingredients! And what's REALLY got my whiskers in a twist
is that the ingredient I need the most is the one that adds a soothing effect to my drinks.
Who wants to take a dip in a hot spring without a soothing beverage to down afterwards?
Nobody! That's who. So I de-purr-ted on a journey in search of hunters that can help me find the
ingredient I need.

I've searched from Loc Lac City in the
Great Desert, to Moga Village by the
sea, to the snowy heights of Pokke Village...
But not a single hunter would help.
So finally I came to this place and here you are.
Can you help me get my paws on the secret ingredient? Without it, my career as a
drink seller will be over!

Nya?
What is the ingredient?
...
...
Well, I suppose I have to let you
in on the secret...
The secret ingredient is... Fulgurbug.
Delicious, juicy Fulgurbug...
Mmm...makes your mouth water, doesn't it?
So, do you think you could  deliver one for me? Purr-lease?
They say you can find the bugs on the
backs of fallen Zinogres.
Just swing your Bug Net around and they'll hop right in the net.
Oh, and I'll provide the Bug Nets, so don't worry about bringing anything
with you on this Quest.

Make sure you take a Bug Net from the Supply Box at the start of the Quest.
The Quest is called " Bonus: Net Profits  ."
You'll find it in the Event Quests at the
High-rank Quest Counter.
You will help,
won't you? PURR-LEASE!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC133 (Minegarde Sweetheart 2).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC133 (Minegarde Sweetheart 2).txt
SIZE: 2551 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:32:58
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: c11d8db5b775db6a099de07a597c740b10b070215eb627389fe183733a9534b8
================================================================================

﻿Minegarde Sweetheart at your service!
What can I do for ya?
If you need anything, you know where to
find me!

Special delivery! A certain Palico left this
for you, Hunter. They said it was a token
of their "apurr-eciation."

*cringe*
Whoops! Sorry, Hunter.
If you want the gift, you'll have to make space in your Item Box first.

Hunter, I have a favor to ask. If the Jumbo
girl ever treats you to her homemade cooking, tell her it's delicious, 'kay?
Every day the poor thing is busy in the kitchen trying to come up with a recipe
that will satisfy your taste buds.
...Don't worry.
I'll provide the stomach medicine later, hehe.

Welcome home, Hunter!
The paint on your Item Box was chipping
off, so I gave it a brand new coat.
...Brush marks? Oh, that was totally on purpose. It's the latest style, 'kay?
...Yeah.

The FUNNIEST thing happened while you
were away. Your Main Palico took the
hammock over there and...
Oh, wait! I wasn't supposed to say anything... Never mind!

The Tanzia girl calls me "big sister"
sometimes. I have to admit, it feels kinda nice...
Hey, I know!
You can call me "big sister"
too if you want!
...No? Oh well, it could've been fun...

Are you making use of those Equipment Sets, Hunter?
I've got this red Guild uniform registered in my own sets.
Yup, all 16 sets.
All the same red Guild uniform...

Welcome back, Hunter!
Every now and then a visitor happens to
stop by while you're away.
They all jump when I greet them, ha ha!
Not too long ago I scared the Caravaneer so bad he almost wet himself!

Off hunting with some friends?
Have fun! Maybe I'll invite the other girls over for a party while you're away.
Just kidding! ...Or am I?

Looks like the Meownster Hunters
made it back to Sunsnug Isle.
Oh, you don't need to go and meet them.
You can receive your Meownster Hunter rewards from me. Convenient, right?
I'm awesome like that.
Of course, if you feel like spending some time on the sands, you can still go out to
Sunsnug Isle to pick up your rewards.
But you'll still need to talk to the
Headwhiskress for anything relating to
the Meownster Hunters themselves, 'kay?

Hunter! Word around town is that you
finished the Caravaneer's Challenge.
Congrats!
...Hm? Nope, not surprised at all.
Everyone knows that there's no Quest that you can't handle.
I'd have been surprised if you DIDN'T finish it!
Wow, The Master's Test?
Even the veteran hunters in Minegarde
wouldn't be able to do that...
But *I* knew it wouldn't cause you
any serious problems, hehe!



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC134 (Yukumo Sweetheart 2) .txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC134 (Yukumo Sweetheart 2) .txt
SIZE: 2471 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:34:34
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 0ab9de3756be2b258445c4d79a91aa9e84aa8665f19d0b04bf79d1ab889c5f94
================================================================================

﻿So, um, how can I help you, Hunter?

I'll be here if you need me!

A Palico left this for you! Here you go!

Sorry, Hunter... It looks like your Item
Box is all full, so I can't give you the gift. Maybe you could...um, free up some space?
Then I'd be more than happy to put the gift in your box!

Howdy, Hunter!
I hope you don't mind...
I, um, kinda tidied up the place while you were away! I don't mean to brag, but I'm pretty good
at cleaning. Actually, I enjoy it!
*giggle*
I was, um, a bit taken aback by all the
underwear left under your bed, though.

So...um, where do you take a bath,
Hunter? It's just that...I don't see too many hot springs around here...
You, um, DO take baths, don't you?

Is the, um, Felyne with the afro a friend
of yours, Hunter?
...What?! No?! That Felyne came in here, strutting around like the place was home, so
I just assumed...

I sense some serious pressure coming from the...um, frog next to me.

Back in Yukumo we have hot spring-themed
armor.
...Honest! There are Helmets with washcloths on them and everything!

Where I come from, there's this person known as the "Demon Gatekeeper."
...I'm, um, not exactly sure why he's called that. He just goes around
telling people that's his name.

Going on a hunt with your friends, Hunter?

Did you all go to the bath house already?
...Oh? I, uh, thought all Hunters took a bath together before a hunt...
Is that only a Yukumo thing?

Howdy, Hunter! I've received word that
the Meownster Hunters have made it back safely to Sunsnug Isle.
You know...if it's easier for you...um, I could arrange for you to collect your
Meownster Hunter reward from me.
Only if you'd like!
*blush*
I just thought it would save you the time it takes to make it out to Sunsnug Isle.
But if you need any assistance with the Meownster Hunters themselves, you'll
have to visit the Headwhiskress, okay?

Did you really complete the Caravaneer's
Challenge?
You. Are. Amazing!
*blush*
While you were away, visitors kept coming by to congratulate you.
I felt so proud listening to them all fawn over you!
*giggle*
Hunter, is it true you completed The Master's Test? REALLY?!
I heard all about it from my friend...
who still lives in Yukumo! Hard to believe the good news spread so far so quickly.
If you ever find the time to visit Yukumo, the villagers said you'll be
treated to all the drinks you want.
Maybe one day we can...um, go to the hot
spring together!
*blush*



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC135 (Tanzia Sweetheart 2).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC135 (Tanzia Sweetheart 2).txt
SIZE: 2403 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:36:26
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 48e6f8212c387e7d914dfaff47fc66caa3a637327fde2fd7e96ecf564e6b5b42
================================================================================

﻿Can I take your ord...I mean, how can I be
of service, Hunter?
Sorry, I was thinking about food again.

I'll hold down the fort 'til you get back!

A Palico stopped by to drop this off for
you. If it's food, you think I could I have
a bite?

...I wish my stomach was as full as
your Item Box right now, Hunter.
You'll need to make some room if you want the gift!

You like my hair, Hunter? My Guild receptionist sister in Tanzia always
braids it for me.
I love it because it kinda looks like
bread. Sometimes I have to stop myself from trying to eat it!

So, Hunter...
I totally figured out why you're a member
of this Caravan.
It's the Street Cook's food, isn't it?!
ISN'T IT?!
His food is SO good!
Huh? No, I'm not drooling, that's just, ahem...yeah.
*cough*

If you've got Items in your Item Pouch
that you don't need at the moment, feel
free to chuck'em into your Item Box! Especially Well-done Steaks, 'cause you
know, those are pretty heavy.
*cough*

And now a word from our sponsors: "Yee-nya! There ain't nothin' like an
ice cold Tanzian Ale!"
*gulp gulp gulp*
Nyaaaaaa!

And now a word from our sponsors: "Yee-nya! Long day out huntin', pard?
Pick up a jug of refreshin' Tanzian Ale!" "Soooo purrrfectly tasty!"
*gulp gulp gulp*
Nyaaaaaa!

The Jumbo girl is as sweet as Blessed
Wine. Unfortunately that makes her an easy target for the Minegarde girl.

Heading out on a Quest with your friends?
Bring me back some Well-done Steak,
would ya?

Ahoy, Hunter! The Meownster Hunters
have made it back safely to Sunsnug Isle. Let's celebrate with a Wanchovy sandwich!
But first things first. I've made arrangements
so you can pick up your Meownster Hunter
rewards from me.
Convenient, right? That's like, deserving of
a few Well-done Steaks if you ask me.
But I can't help with stuff related to the
Meownster Hunters themselves. Go see
the Headwhiskress for that!

Wowie! You really finished the Caravaneer's
Challenge? You're like some sort of super hunter!
If you were a food, you'd be the equivalent
of like a gourmet steak or something!

Congrats on completing The Master's
Test, Hunter! I'm going to celebrate by having a Tanzian Ale!
Folks as far away as Tanzia are talking about how amazing you are.
They've even got a seat reserved for you at The Tanzinya Grill!
Just don't go there without me, okay?!
Now, time for that ice cold Tanzian Ale!
Mmm mmm...



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC136 (Moga Sweetheart 2).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC136 (Moga Sweetheart 2).txt
SIZE: 2351 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:38:00
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 4939dfb2e3845e28c6124b8a0a35c14ecb2441b2811183db0af111235fd7c280
================================================================================

﻿Hey ho, Hunterino!

Til next time!

A certain Palico left a gift for you!
Isn't that sweet?

Whoa, hold on. You have way too much stuff
in your Item Box.
The gift won't fit! Come back after you've freed up some space.

Hey Hunter, did ya know I was scouted to
become an actress back in the day? Personally, I wanted to live a quiet life, but
with good looks like these, it's almost impossible to not get noticed!
...Hey, are you even listening?

...Oh! I just remembered why I came to this
town in the first place.
I came to see an old friend.
I wonder where she is?
You probably wouldn't know her, would
you?
*sigh*

How goes the hunting?
I've been absolutely swamped baking
cookies and taking naps and stuff.
Maybe I should just quit this Housekeeper job?
...Just messing with you. I know you
couldn't live without me!

Hiya, Hunter! Did you bring me any
souvenirs from your hunt?
...No?! You're joking, right?
...You really didn't get me anything?!
That's it! I'm going home!

While you were out, I took the liberty
of changing your sheets. Aren't I nice? Smell them!
They've got that line-dried smell.
Just DON'T flip the mattress over.
...Nothing! It's nothing.
There's nothing there, it's fine.

Soooo...apparently this trading ship captain I
know has gone missing. They think it might have been a shipwreck.
But I've seen him almost get swallowed whole by a Tigrex, and he still made it out in
one piece, so I'm sure he's just fine.
...Yeah. He'll be fine.

Ooooh, a group hunt?
If you find any pretty or shiny
materials, I want! Yay! The Meownster Hunters have returned
to Sunsnug Isle!

Hunter, I know exactly what you're thinking right now.
You wish there was a way you could get
your Meownster Hunter reward without
going all the way to Sunsnug Isle, right?
Well, you're in luck! I set it up so that you
can pick up your Meownster Hunter reward from yours truly!
Pretty sweet, huh? But I can only give you the reward;
for matters relating to the Meownster Hunters
themselves, talk to the Headwhiskress.

Woohoo!
Congrats on finishing the Caravaneer's Challenge, Hunter!
I feel like your triumph is my triumph!
Woo! Go me!

Whaaaat?! You finished The
Master's Test? That's incredible!
I'm honored to be such an amazing Housekeeper!
...YOUR! I'm honored to be YOUR amazing Housekeeper, is what I meant.



================================================================================
TITLE: NPC137 (Jumbo Sweetheart).txt
SOURCE PATH: NPC137 (Jumbo Sweetheart).txt
SIZE: 2423 bytes
MODIFIED: 26/08/2024, 16:39:16
READABLE AS TEXT: yes
HASH: 91c8d4921c286d9f512ac0c54471dd132924199de58981eb7772e026050a218e
================================================================================

﻿Let's get to it, Hunter!

See you next time!

A Palico came by and left this gift for
you!

Unfortunately, your Item Box is full.
I can't put the gift in it until you
take something out, I'm afraid.

*Yawn*...
This room is super comfy. I always feel
so relaxed...
*yawn*
...But I have to...stay awake...
...need to...do housekeeping...
...and...
*zzz*

Oh! Hello, Hunter!
...How long have you been standing
there?

The Minegarde girl told me I'd grow
taller if I took some Mega Nutrients,
so I've been taking them every morning! ...What? You mean she was... *sigh*
Why do I always fall for her tricks?

There are so many ingredients here that I
can't get back in Jumbo Village. I just
love shopping at the market here!

Oh, I used to work at a tavern, so I'm
a great cook, believe it or not.
I'll fix you up a meal sometime, okay?

Sometimes I see your Main Palico taking
a cat nap in the Equipment Box. It looks
really comfy... Maybe I should also--
...Aha, aha ha. N-nothing! I was just thinking out loud. *cough*

A few days ago, the Ace Palico came up
to me and asked me if I wanted to
become his protégé.

If I became a Palico Sweetheart, would
you take me out on hunts?

Back in Jumbo village, there's this
Wyverian lady who can really hold her
liquor. At first glance, she looks like this pretty,
sweet woman, but she can destroy anyone
in a drinking competition! ANYONE!

Off on a Quest with your hunter friends today?
Alright, I'll be waiting right here.

Hunter, great news! The Meownster Hunters
got back to Sunsnug Isle safely! Yay!
*clap clap clap*
And even better news: You can pick up
your Meownster Hunter rewards from
me now! Yay!
*clap clap clap clap*
But if you need to work out anything with
the Meownster Hunters themselves, you'll
still need to visit the Headwhiskress, okay?

Hunter, what happened? I keep hearing
all this talk about you but--
...You what? You completed the Caravaneer's Challenge?!
Really?! Congratulations!
Yay!
*clap clap clap*
We should celebrate, Hunter.
I'll think of something to cook! Guess what the people in Jumbo Village
are talking about! That's right -- you and how you whipped The Master's Test!

We should go to Jumbo Village sometime
to celebrate. I hear "Derring" armor is super
popular there right now. Wouldn't it be funny to see all those hunters
with the same armor on? We should go and
check it out together one day...

